❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: DAILY FROM: AHMEDABAD, CHANDIGARH, DELHI, JAIPUR, KOLKATA, LUCKNOW, MUMBAI, NAGPUR, PUNE, VADODARA
The IndianEXPRESS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021, NEW DELHI, LATE CITY, 20 PAGES

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: JOURNALISM OF COURAGE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: SINCE 1932

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: %6.00 (%8 BIHAR & RAIPUR, 12 SRINAGAR) WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM
Remarks against Mahatma: Raipur police arrest religious leader

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.81]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE RAIPUR, DECEMBER 30
DAYS AFTER an FIR was reg- istered against Kalicharan for hate speech and for al- legedly derogatory re- marks against Mahatma Gandhi, the Chhattisgarh Police arrested

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.84]: CONTINUED ON PAGE 2
Kalicharan Maharaj
BUSINESS AS USUAL By UNNY Tht Mua PEST OF Chur fit find
engi ¢ yok
BUMRAH Key IN WIN
Jasprit Bumrah appeals successfully for an Ibw decision against South Africa captain Dean Elgar at Centurion, Thursday. It was a key wicket in India’s 113-run win in the
first Test of the three-match series. Reuters

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: REPORT, PAGE 19
Corbett tiger safari: No sanction as state pushes work, cost up six times

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: JAY MAZOOMDAAR NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
THE UTTARAKHAND govern- ment started work on a tiger sa- fari facility in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) months before it received forest clearance in September from the Union Ministry of Environment and
Forests, and strikingly much be- yond the scope of the Rs 24.60 crore project that was approved.
Documents reviewed by The Indian Express show the state embarked on a construction spree worth at least Rs 157 crore —six times the approved project cost of Rs 24.60 crore — without any legal, administrative, or CONTINUED ON PAGE 2
Covid curve climbs in six states, 9 key urban areas
Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, TN on radar

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.84]: KAUNAIN SHERIFF M NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
CALLING FOR “heightened vigi- lance” leading into the new year in the backdrop of a “sharp in- crease” in Covid cases over the last four days, the Centre Thursday said the spike being re- ported from several urban dis- tricts is likely part of the global rise pushed by the highly trans- missible Omicron variant.
The Union Health Ministry has red-flagged nine urban dis- tricts and six “emerging states of concern”, including Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, on the basis of an in- creasing trajectory in weekly case counts and positivity rates.
Summing up the data, DrV K Paul, who heads the national Covid task force, said “there is a changing scenario in the pan- demic situation”.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: INSIDE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: 1,313 NEW CASES IN DELHI; 54% CASES SHOW OMICRON

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: IN WEST BENGAL, CASES DOUBLE IN 24 HOURS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.86]: PAGES 3,9
“We were nationwide having around 7,000 cases, and today we are seeing an uptick — 13,000 cases have been reported yester- day. Clearly, we are seeing an in- crease in cases. Several states are

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: CONTINUED ON PAGE 2
R-value over 1 in big cities, likely start of third wave

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.9]: AMITABH SINHA PUNE, DECEMBER 30
ALTHOUGH THE government has not described it as such, there are now unmistakable signs that India has entered the third wave of the Covid-19 pan- demic. The surge in cases that has started is unlikely to subside or change course over the next few days.
But it is too early to say any- thing about the magnitude or the quality of this surge. It need not be similar to the first two waves that the country has wit- nessed so far, or follow the tra- jectories seen in some of the

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CONTINUED ON PAGE 2

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.9]: EXPLAINED
Minister, MPs attend Tibet event, China diplomat writes to them: Don’t support

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.52]: SHUBHAUIT ROY, MANOJCG&LIZ MATHEW NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
A WEEK after a group of Parliamentarians, including Union MoS Rajeev Chandrasekhar, at- tended a dinner reception hosted by the Tibetan Parliament-in-ex- ile, the Chinese Embassy in Delhi has expressed “concern” over their participation and asked them to “refrain from providing support to the Tibetan independ- ence' forces”.
Under the All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet, at least six MPs cutting across party lines had attended an event on December 22 at a hotel in Delhi. They included Union MoS for Entrepreneurship, Skill Development, Electronics & Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar, BJP'’s Maneka Gandhi and K C Ramamurthy, Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Manish Tewari, and BJD's Sujeet Kumar. The Speaker of Tibetan Parliament-in-exile,
Rajeev Chandrasekhar;
Jairam Ramesh

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: GOVT & POLITICS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.78]: CHINA RAISES HEAT ON ARUNACHAL, NAMES 15 MORE SITES PAGE6
Khenpo Sonam Tenphel, was also present.
China's unusually worded letter, sent Thursday by the Political Counsellor at its Embassy, is being seen as an undiplomatic move by Delhi, as foreign diplomats writing to MPs in India in this manner has not happened in the recent past.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CONTINUED ON PAGE 2

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: AY

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: UG)D):
e
oo X
oT, 1-A
* “a, 2
ms \
[tp “es

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: RCN-2S

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: RCN-18/11
ara.2a | RCN-12/14
New Delhi

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: OCVIGIL
ne
ae iil, i, =
olf »\

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WANTED
Lol

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ‘CHE SECOND PAGE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021
Virat Koblt reclales: ip posliinn in DOC Tit Bening Apekings
wer mee ae eye bere ers ae i meh has es beh. pet =

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: DOWNLOAD APP 4
m VISUAL STORIES u DAILY BRIEFING = PODCASTS
mu CUSTOMIZABLE NEWS EXPERIENCE
Indian Express tokkks 4.6
OR ao Oba

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.71]: SCAN THIS QRCODE TO DOWNLOAD THE APP

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WEB EXCLUSIVE
$The IndianEXPRESS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: YEARENDER 2021: HERE |S WHAT YOU READ THIS YEAR
We have trudged through another pandemic year. As we stay indoors, our curiosity for what is happening in the outside world seems to be scaling new heights. So indianexpress.com too is riding another year of the Covid bump powered by our extensive coverage of the pandemic, its impact on our lives and the economy.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.59]: ‘HOW DO WE EXIT THIS COUNTRY?’
No passports, no money, 62 Indians are stranded in Sudan

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ENTERTAINMENT

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: MALAYALAM CINEMA’S BEST OF 2021
From Minnal Murali, to The Great Indian Kitchen and Malik

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: EXPRESSU
Looking back at 2021:
Indian politics and
economy

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: NEW EPISODE EVERYDAY
Indian Express’s Manoj CG and Udit Misra join host Snigdha Sharma to discuss the highs and lows of Indian politics and economy in the year gone by.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.82]: FROM PAGE ONE
R-value
other countries in Europe or in the United States. South Africa is following a very different trajec- tory, and so, it seems as of now, is Germany. In both these coun- tries, cases seem to be stabilis- ing, though it is not over yet, and part of the puzzle could also be related to inconsistent reporting of data during Christmas break.
Not surprisingly, the sharpest increases in cases are being seen in the major cities - Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Pune, Kolkata, Chennai and oth- ers. This is not just because of their large, and concentrated, populations, but also due to the fact that these get the maximum number of incoming foreign travellers. The Omicron variant, which is the reason for the cur- rent surge, would first begin cir- culating in these populations be- fore moving to the interior.
These are also the places with better, and more prompt, testing infrastructure.
The reproduction number or R, an indicator of how quickly a disease is spreading in the pop- ulation, has crossed 1 inall these megacities, according to the lat- est analysis by a group of re- searchers, led by Sitabhra Sinha, at the Chennai-based Institute of Mathematical Sciences. An R- value of 1, which signifies that every infected person is passing on the infection to at least one person on an average, is a key threshold after which cases be- gin to rise rapidly. Both Delhi and Mumbai have R-values over 2 right now, according to Sinha’s analysis, indicating that in both these cities, one person is trans- mitting to more than two peo- ple on an average. This is a fore- cast for avery quick rise in cases in both these cities.
A major reason for the un- precedented surge in Europe and the US is the fact that it came during the annual festival sea- son when large gatherings are the norm. And while many gov- ernments have announced some restrictions to control the

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: PUBLIC NOTICE
The Public at large is hereby informed that Late Shri Rajiv Kumar Mahajan S/o Late Sh. Shiv Ram Mahajan and Smt. Upasana Mahajan W/o Late Sh.
Rajiv Kumar Mahajan, both R/o B-3, Inderpuri, New Delhi-110012 were allotted plot/property No.
6/C-2 area 300 sqyd. (appx.) in proposed Township project "Vatika India Next" situated at Sector 82-A, Gurgaon (Haryana); that after the demise of Sh. Rajiv Kumar Mahajan, his legal heirs requested the company to transfer their share in favor of their mother; Smt. Upasana Mahajan. Any person having any objection on this may please contact the company officer within 15 days after which No Claim would be accepted.
Details as Under :
Vatika Limited
A-002, Ground Floor, Block-A,
Vatika INXT City Centre, Sector 83, Gurugram, Haryana, India-122012
surge, they have largely been re- luctant to spoil the Christmas or New Year celebrations or gath- erings. There is no such compul- sion in India right now, and if people do follow Covid-appro- priate behaviour in a responsi- ble manner, it is possible for the country to negotiate this wave with minimal economic disrup- tion.
Corbett safari
financial sanction. The project was initially envisaged as an ani- mal rescue facility with open-to- air enclosures and an interpreta- tion centre for tourists. But the state went ahead with unap- proved works such as construc- tion of 18 buildings with at least 60 rooms with attached bath at four locations around the tiger sa- fari, creation of a water body re- quiring felling of trees to attract wildlife for tourists, and reinforce- ment of a forest road with provi- sions to widen it as a highway.
Following a writ petition in Delhi High Court and two field in- spections by Central agencies, the illegal work was finally put on hold in November and Uttarakhand transferred as many as 30 forest officials, including the state’s Head of Forest Force (HoFF) and Chief Wildlife Warden (CWLW),to ensure a “transparent vigilance” probe. It has been over amonth since, but Kishan Chand, the forest officer entrusted with the extensive construction work is yet to relinquish charge as Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), Kalagarh, the western division of CTR. On Thursday, the Corbett staff “locked down” all office premises of this division to protest the “dual command” as Kishan Chand’s replacement took “one- sided charge” on December 11.
When contacted, CTR Director Rahul said the safari work did commence without the final FC.
“We had Stage-1 FC, other ap- provals and began constructing the interpretation centre this February. The work with no ap- proval started in July and I asked the DFO to stop it,” he said. DFO (Kalagarh) Kishan Chand did not respond to multiple phone calls and messages.
Vinod Kumar, who took charge as HoFF after the reshuf- fle, said the “question of work done without sanction” would be answered only after the com- pletion of a vigilance probe or- dered in November. “The police team has collected all the docu- ments,” he said.
Uttarakhand Forest Minister Harak Singh Rawat is optimistic the tiger safari will now be ready for tourists in January. “The in- terpretation centre and one of the three tiger enclosures are al- most ready. There is no irregu- larity. Uttarakhand has so much forest and wildlife thanks to its people who must also benefit from tourism activities,” he said.Asked why approvals were not taken for additional con- struction inside the CTR, Rawat
showing a trend, whichis going up. The reproduction number is 1.22 from the available data. The cases are now enlarging, not shrinking. So far, deaths are sta- ble -- they are in the range of 260, below 300, typically. That remains stable and is reassur- ing, as of now,” Paul said.
Paul also cautioned that any data on lesser severity of Omicron cannot be taken for granted, at this moment.
“As the scenario emerges, we believe what we are wit- nessing could be part of the global rise in cases, pushed by the Omicron virus...this variant is highly transmissible and that perhaps explains the speed with which it is rising in the world. The severity issues are still unsettled; the WHO state- ment says severity is, hopefully, mild. But it cannot be taken for granted because itis still a work in progress,” he said. The Health Ministry, meanwhile, listed the six states of concern, based on a comparison of weekly cases and positivity rate of the last seven days (December 24-30)
with data from the preceding seven (December 17-23):
@ Maharashtra reported 13,200 cases, a 117% increase, with positivity jumping from 0.92% to 2.59%.
@ Delhi reported 2,587 cases, a 290% increase, with positivity rising from 0.2% to 1%.
@ Gujarat reported 1,711 cases, a 245% increase, as posi- tivity rose from 0.19% to 0.54%.
According to the Ministry, West Bengal reported 4,442 cases (18.49% increase in cases), Karnataka 2,533 cases (26%) and Tamil Nadu 4,383 cases (2.35%).
The nine districts flagged by the Centre, based on a compar- ison of case counts of seven days (December 22-28) with data from the preceding seven (December 15-21), are:
Mumbai City with a 232% rise in that period, from 2,044 cases to 6,787 cases; Pune from 1,554 to 2,076; Thane from 913 to 2,033; Bengaluru Urban from 1,445 to 1,902; Chennai from 1,039 to 1,720; Mumbai Suburban from 521 to 1,670;
Govt flags Covid spike in six states, calls for vigil
Gurgaon from 194 to 738;
Ahmedabad from 207 to 635;
and Nashik from 333 cases to 383 cases.
Paul said the emphasis should be on responsible Covid- appropriate behaviour, not panic. “Itis a reality check today and...there is no need to panic.
Because as a nation we are pre- pared, we have experience, we have the massive shield of very high coverage of vaccination.
But there is aneed to be respon- sible and to be disciplined. We must follow the restrictions and rules. All variants enter through the same route, and that route can be blocked by wearing a mask. So mask, mask, mask, has become even more important today,” he said.
Asked if India is witnessing a third wave, Paul said: “This is an emerging situation. Where this will take us and where this should be stopped, is all in our hands. We have putall efforts to stop it. We have to suppress (the transmission) right now and at this level. It is in our hands, by vaccination, by precaution, and
other public health measures,” he said.
The task force chief warned that “this surge could be signif- icant” and asked everyone to “be prepared” since “it may not necessarily be mild”. “Be pre- pared, the health systems are ready for the maximum possi- ble level,” Paul said.
ICMR chief Balram Bhargava said the Centre will soon come out with guidelines on whether the third “precaution” dose, to be rolled out on January 10, should be of a different vaccine platform.
“We are deciding what is the population that will require this vaccine, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and 60-plus with comorbidities;
what are the new vaccines available; which vaccines can be given after which vaccine in terms of safety and efficacy. We are analysing all the data...
Whether it is going to be the same one or different one, be- fore January 10, we will have clear-cut recommendations,” he said.
said, “Who gives these approvals?
The government only, no? Modi- jiannounced the tiger safari. The state and the Centre are working on it together. Maybe there are certain technical issues due to in- ternal differences among some officials but ultimately tourism will benefit our people whose support is important for conser- vation.” It was Rawat who had in December 2020 said that the “150-crore project would be ready for tourists by November 2021”.
Rawat also said he planned to utilise funds from the CAMPA (Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority) coffer built on com- pensation collected in lieu of for- est land diverted for developmen- tal purposes. Told that CAMPA money is meant for conservation work and cannot be used for building tourism infrastructure, he said, “We will have to lookinto those policies. Anyway, these are residential quarters for forest staff.” But several buildings under construction — and a few hur- riedly demolished since — have been identified as tourism facili- ties by the two Central agencies.
After conservation activist and advocate Gaurav Bansal moved Delhi HCin August against illegal tree-felling and construction in- side CTR, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the MoEF’s regional office at Dehradun conducted two sepa- rate site inspections in September and October.
The findings were scathing:
@ The extensive construction activity “appeared to be for the purpose of tourism which is a

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PUBLIC NOTICE
Subject: Transfer of ownership in respect of SCO No.
16, Sector-14, Gurugram in respect of the intestate death of Sh. Shikhar Chand Jain Late Shikhar Chand Jain who was the Co-owner of the subject cited property bearing No. SCO No. 16, Sector- 14, Gurugram passed away on 03.04.2020, has left a will in favour of Late Sh. Dinesh Jain his son, during the life time Late Sh. Dinesh Jain applied for User Id and Password in his favour through will Incidentally, Sh.
Dinesh Jain also expired on 17.09.2020 before the issue of User ID and Password. Late Sh. Dinesh Jain has not left any registered or un-registered will in favour ofany person.
Now Priti Jain, W/o Late Sh. Dinesh Jain S/o Late Sh Shikhar Chand Jain, Khushi Jain and Muskan Jain (Minor) D/o Late Sh. Dinesh Jain, S/o Late Sh. Shikhar Chand R/o K-106, Hauz Khas Enclave, New Delhi- 110016 intends to apply for the transfer of the said property in their favour being the legal heirs. If any person is having any objection against the transfer of the said property, he/she can submit objections in writing to the Estate Officer-l, HSVP, Gurugram alongwith supporting documents within 30 days from the publication of this notice. Otherwise, the Estate Officer may sanctioned mutation of the property in the faovur of applicant as per HSVP policy and may not entertain subsequent claim, ifany.
Smt. Priti Jain, Knushi Jain
Muskan Jain (Minor)
On behalf of Estate Officer-l, HSVP, Gurugram
hi
— t;
Classifieds

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: EAPRES) EDUCATION

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: GS(IV) MAINS COURSE CUM TEST SERIES 2022
NIC EIAS "yiiocjncaes sina
Sameer Saurabh AIR 2/2017_||_AIR 32/2018 => Neha Bhosle ||Jubin Mohapatra AIR 15/2019 || AIR 46/2020

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.9]: UPSC
An Institute for Civil Services Examination
Online Classes will be
taken on Zoom x Duration of Course will be around 2.5 months * PPT Notes will be provided * Periodic assignment, dedicated classes on case studies and answer writing practice are added advantage.* For more details please visit us @niceias.org
Contact for Advt. Booking: M/s Friends Publicity Service (M): 9212665841, 9212008155
Aakash Shrshrimal AIR 94/2020
non-forestry” activity. For any of these, no legal, administrative, or financial approval could be pro- duced by the DFO (Kalagarh) who “continued with the construction work at least till a day before” the inspection.
@ The ongoing “construction activities in one of the highest density tiger habitats of the world without any competent sanctions and by violating the various statu- tory provisions/court orders is an excellent example of both admin- istrative and managerial failure” and “criminal liability needs to be fixed against the officers respon- sible for undertaking such con- struction.” Official communica- tions of the forest department show that out of the total budget demand of Rs 157.89 crore for construction work related to the tiger safari, a proposal for Rs 102.11 crore was recommended on September 15 by then chief wildlife warden JS Suhag who also headed the Uttarakhand CAMPA.
This was, however, turned down ata meeting chaired by then HoFF Rajiv Bhartari, pending clarifica- tionas to how the cost of the tiger safari “escalated from 26.81 crores to 102.11 crores”.
When contacted, Bhartari said: “Except one component of around Rs 5.5 crore for the tiger safari’s approved electricity works, the proposal was re- turned.” While Suhag, who con- tinues to head the state CAMPA, refused to comment on his rec- ommendation, Rahul described the inflated financial proposal as an “afterthought to meet the de- mands” of his deputy Kishan Chand.
Raipur police the religious leader from neigh- bouring Madhya Pradesh, trig- gering a war of words between leaders of both states.
An FIR was lodged on Sunday
based on a complaint by Congress leader Pramod Dubey alleging that at a ‘Dharam Sansad’ held on December 25- 26 in Raipur, Kalicharan deliv- ered aspeech abusing Mahatma Gandhi and “promoting ten- sions between different com- munities”. Dubey was present at the Sansad where Kalicharan made the speech.
While the FIR was earlier registered under Sections 505(2) (promoting enmity among classes) and 294 (obscene act in public place) of the IPC, the Raipur Police said sections re- lated to sedition (124A) and out- raging religious feelings (295A), among others, were added dur- ing investigation.According to senior police officials, while teams were sent to Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Maharashtra to arrest Kalicharan, he was eventually found 25 km from Khajuraho. “He had rented a room near Bageshwar Dham. He was alrested at 4 am," said Raipur SP Prashant Agrawal.
Late Thursday, Kalicharan was presented before the ses- sions court in Raipur, where he was remanded in police custody for two days. The arrest led to an uproar in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh, with state Home Minister Narottam Mishra alleg- ing that the Chhattisgarh Police had violated norms by arresting Kalicharan without informing the Madhya Pradesh Police. Ina tweet, Mishra instructed the Madhya Pradesh DGP to register his protest with his Chhattisgarh counterpart.
Madhya Pradesh DGP Vivek Johri said, "I have spoken to the Chhattisgarh DGP and registered my protest on the way the entire operation was conducted."
Responding to Mishra’s com- ments, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said,
“Strict action will be taken against those abusing the Father of the Nation... People asking questions about the arrest... I want to ask them, are they un- happy that such a man has been arrested?" Union Minister Giriraj Singh targeted Baghel and said the CM should focus on fighting “extremists” in the state. "I don't know how he handles law and order in the state, but had he fo- cused on getting even one area free of extremists, it would have been better," said Singh, who is ona trip to Bhopal.
Chhattisgarh BJP leader Brijmohan Agrawal, who was present at the Dharam Sansad on Sunday, tweeted in support of Kalicharan, with the hashtag #ReleaseKalicharanMahargj.
At the sessions court in Raipur, where Kalicharan was presented after a medical exam- ination, a group of people raised slogans seeking his release.
In Maharashtra, state Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil said the state police will seek Kalicharan's custody and inves- tigate the cases registered against him over Sunday’s speech. “The use of derogatory language against the Father of the Nation is a big crime. A case of sedition should be registered against him. The Maharashtra Police will investigate the cases registered against him in the state," the minister said.
FIRs had been registered against Kalicharan at police sta- tions in Akola and Thane city over the speech he made in Raipur. Sources said both FIRs are being transferred to Raipur.
Kalicharan, originally Abhijit Dhananjay Sarang, is a resident of Akola in Maharashtra. He gained popularity in 2020 after a video of him reciting the Shiv Tandav Stotram went viral. A middle school dropout,
Kalicharan had in his speech at the Dharam Sansad, besides speaking out against Mahatma Gandhi, claimed that since 1947, Muslims have been attempting to gain power through politics.
He also said people should be prepared for a "Hindu Rashtra”.
Meanwhile, an official in the Chhattisgarh Food and Civil Supplies Department was ar- rested in Raipur for allegedly making derogatory comments against Mahatma Gandhi ina Facebook post. Sanjay Dubey, an assistant food officer, was sus- pended and later arrested based onan FIR filed on December 27.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.87]: INPUTS FROM ENS, MUMBAI, BHOPAL
China envoy
Reacting sharply to the letter, BJD's Kumar said: “Who is the Political Counsellor at the Chinese Embassy to write to a Member of Parliament of India, the largest democracy? How dare you send letters to Indian MPs? If anything, youcan raise your protest through official channels. I think the MEA (Ministry of External Affairs) should take a stand.”
The letter comes almost four years after the Government had asked "senior leaders" and "gov- ernment functionaries" to not at- tend the events organised by Tibetans in India, citing bilateral ties. In the letter, Political Counsellor Zhou Yongsheng wrote: “I have noticed that you have attended an activity held by the so-called “All-Party Indian Parliamentary Forum for Tibet” and interacted with some mem- bers of so called "Tibetan Parliament in Exile". I would like to express our concern on that.”
The Counsellor wrote: “As is known to all, the so-called ‘Tibetan Government in-exile’ is an out-and-out separatist politi- cal group and an illegal organiza- tion completely in violation of China’s Constitution and laws. It is not recognized by any country inthe world. Tibet has been an in- separable part of China since an- cient times, and Tibet related af- fairs are purely China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign inter- ference.”
The letter stated that in a se- ries of political documents, the Indian Government has recog- nised that the Tibet Autonomous Region is part of the territory of the People’s Republic of China and reiterated that it does not allow Tibetans to carry out anti-China political activities. “China firmly opposes any anti-China separatist activities conducted by “Tibetan independence” forces in any ca- pacity orname in any country and opposes any forms of contact by officials of any country with them,” the letter said.
Addressing the MPs, Zhou wrote: “You area senior politician who know the China-India rela- tions well. It is hoped that you could understand the sensitivity of the issue and refrain from pro- viding support to the “Tibetan in- dependence” forces, and make contributions to China-India bi- lateral relations.” When con- tacted, Chandrasekhar told The Indian Express: “I was amember of the Indo-Tibetan Parliamentary
forum under the chairmanship of (BJP veteran) Shanta Kumarji and I was invited in the capacity. | at- tended the dinner.”
BJD's Kumar, who is also con- venor of the forum, said:
“Personally speaking, I don’t con- sider Tibet to be a part of China.
That is separate because the Government of India’s official pol- icy is different. But this Parliamentary forum on Tibet is to support the cause of Tibetan cultural and religious beliefs, and is between the people of India and the Tibetan government-in-exile.
One should not read too much politics into it.”
Kumar said: “The stated goals ofthe Parliamentary forum is not to advocate for the independence of Tibet or anything controversial.
Itis largely to build a relationship between the government-in-ex- ileand the people of India because of the shared history, shared civi- lization and linkages..because of Buddhism, because of trade be- tween Tibet and India in the past.
The idea is to build on those link- ages. I think I have already re- ceived four or five letters from the Embassy. | give them befitting replies, too,” he said.
When contacted, Congress’ Jairam Ramesh confirmed that he has received a letter from the Political Counsellor. “When! was asked to speak (at the event), I said I never go to any evening func- tions but I have made an excep- tion because of my profound ad- miration for the Buddha, deep respect for the Dalai Lama and in gratitude for the role Tibetan sources have played in the redis- covery of India's Buddhist her- itage.” India has had a consistently supportive policy towards the ex- iled leaders of Tibet. In a careful balancing act on its pledged sup- port to Tibetans while seeking a peaceful relationship with China, India's position has been to recog- nise Tibet as an autonomous re- gion of the People’s Republic of China. It "continues to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually accept- able solution to the vexed bound- ary issue" with China.
Sixty years ago, around 80,000 Tibetans, along with their spiri- tual leader the Dalai Lama, left Lhasa after a failed uprising against the Communist rule and arrived in India.
The Tibetan exile administra- tion, called CTA, is based in Dharamshala where the spiritual leader also lives. Around 140,000 Tibetans now live in exile, over 100,000 of them in different parts of India. Over six million Tibetans live in Tibet. In 2018, the Centre had advised senior ministers and bureaucrats to stay away from ‘Thank You India’ events organ- ised by Tibetan leaders.
The Indian Express had re- ported on an official note dated February 22, 2018, advising "sen- ior leaders" and "government functionaries" of the Centre and states to stay away from events or- ganised by Tibetan leaders, citing "very sensitive times" in bilateral relations on India and China.
The note was sent by then Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale to Cabinet Secretary at the time, P K Sinha, who issued a directive two days later.
Kashmir: Army jawan, 6 militants killed in two encounters

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: PRESS TRUST OF INDIA SRINAGAR, DECEMBER 30
TWO JAISH-E-MOHAMMAD militants allegedly involved in the December 13 attack ona po- lice bus on the outskirts of the city here, were among the six ul- tras, including two Pakistani na- tionals, killed in twin encounters in south Kashmir that also left an Army jawan dead, officials said on Thursday.
While three militants were killed in an overnight encounter in Anantnag, three others were killed in the gunfight which took
place in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir Wednesday evening, they said.
Two jawans and a police of- ficial were also injured during the Anantnag operation, they said.
The encounters took place af- ter the forces launched cordon and search operations in Nowgam Shahabad area in Anantnag district, and Mirhama area of Kulgam — both in south Kashmir — after specific inputs about the presence of militants Wednesday evening.
“In the last about five days, security forces have carried out
multiple operations across the Valley, resulting in 11 hardcore terrorists being neutralised, killed. On Wednesday night, in two separate operations, six ter- rorists, including two Pakistani terrorists, of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) cadre were neutralised in Kulgam and Anantnag,” General officer Commanding (GoC) of the Army's 15 Corps, Lt Gen D P Pandey said.
He was addressing a joint press conference along with Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar at Qazigund in south Kashmir's Anantnag district.
New Delhi
The GoC said during the op- eration, Sepoy Jasbir Singh lost his life.
“As the operation was being conducted in very heavily built up area, while evacuating civil- ians from harm's way, we had two Army personnel and one JKP personnel suffering gunshot wounds. They are all stable as of now,” he said.
The IGP Kashmir said two of the ultras killed in the Anantnag encounter were involved in the December 13 attack on a police bus in Zewan area on the out- skirts of the city here in which three policemen were killed.
“After the Zewan attack, I had shared with you that JeM carried out the attack. Security person- nel will be happy to know that this is the same group which car- ried out the attack in which three policemen were martyred,” he said.
Kumar identified the mili- tants behind the attack as Altaf Ahmad Shah alias Mufti Altaf, a resident of Nathipora Dooru, and a Pakistani national Sultan alias Mavia alias Rayees.
The duo had carried out the attack along with another mili- tant Suhail Ahmad Rather, a res- ident of Zaffran Colony.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: THECITY
Omicron in community, 34% cases show variant, says Jain

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.54]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
THE NEW omicron variant is cir- culating in the community in Delhi and is possibly the reason behind the recent increase in Covid cases, said Health Minister Satyendar Jain Thursday.
“Covid cases have increased rapidly over the last few days. As per the genome sequencing data, 54% of these are omicron variant, including people who have travel history as well as those who do not. This means omicron is now in Delhi,” said Jain in an online briefing about increasing cases.
Delhi reported 1,313 Covid cases Thursday, up from 923 on Wednesday. Positivity rate also increased from 1.29% to 1.73%.
The total number of Covid patients admitted to hospitals on Thursday was 150. This includes patients from the airport. Of the 150, 83 are asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms; 66 have moderate symptoms and are on oxygen support. Only one
Delhi’s active Covid case count has jumped from 557 to 3,081 in a week’s time. Amit Mehra
person has severe symptoms and is on ventilator support. Out of the 150 patients in hospitals, 118 are from Delhi. An additional 111 people who either have Covid or are suspected to have the disease are lodged in Covid Care Centres.
Delhi’s active Covid case count has jumped from 557 to 3,081 ina week’s time.
The Indian Express reported that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in its meeting Wednesday accepted the possibility of community spread after no history of inter-
national travel or contact with an international traveller was found after the investigation in nearly 60 cases reported over Monday and Tuesday. Furthermore, 64 of the 73 new cases reported on Wednesday also did not have any history of travel or contact.
Keeping the rise in Covid cases and that of the omicron variant in mind, the Delhi government has ordered four centres to create step-down isolation or quaran- tine centres for those who might have the omicron variant.
Director General of Health
Services Nutan Mundeja passed an order Thursday allowing in- stitutional isolation of Covid positive international passen- gers or their contacts arriving at the airport, at paid as well as free Covid Care Centres.
There will be 100 beds in Terapanth Bhawan that will be linked to Ambedkar Nagar hospi- tal, 100 beds at Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre linked to Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, 100 beds at IBIS hotel linked to Indira Gandhi hospital-Dwarka, and another 50 at CWG village linked to Lal Bahadur Shastri hos- pital. The centre at CWG village will be scaled up to 500 beds, ac- cording to an order issued by the special secretary (health) S M Ali.
The linked hospitals will provide manpower, consumables, and arrange logistics for the centres as per the order. Currently, all those who have or are suspected to have omicron variant infection are admitted to the government's Lok Nayak hospital or four private hospitals — Sir Ganga Ram, Max hospital-Saket, Fortis Hospital- Vasant Kunj, and Batra Hospital.
OPD services, admissions curtailed at AIIMS

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.55]: ANONNA DUTT NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
WITH THE number of Covid cases on the rise in Delhi, AIIMS will curtail patients visiting outpatient clinics as well as the number of routine admissions, as per the contingency plan that will come into effect on New Year's Eve.
Both old and new patients with existing appointments will receive consultations and only the numbers will be restricted, as per recommendations of the heads of the departments, ac- cording to the plan.
“No service will be stopped,
however, keeping in mind the in- creasing number of Covid cases in the city, the number of other patients will be restricted,” said a senior official from the hospi- tal, on condition of anonymity.
Covid-19 admissions in the hospital have increased five times over the course of the week — from two-three admissions a day earlier to 14 on Thursday, ac- cording to the official.
“The increase seems like a lot as the number of cases have been low in the city for several months now. But, in comparison to the second wave, this is not too much. The number of cases have gone up, but most are mild
and do not need hospitalisation.
We are expecting the number of hospitalisations to increase in the coming days but it is unlikely to be as much as the second wave,” the official said.
Plan for possible surge
The hospital will convert three floors, including the ICU, of its newly created burns and plas- tic block into a Covid-19 centre.
Two floors at its National Cancer Institute in Jhajjar will also be converted for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Rooms in the private ward are also being prepared for Covid cases.
Other than that, one addi-
tional floor at the Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre will also be converted into a Covid treatment facility, in lieu of which a ward at the main AIIMS build- ing will be freed up for trauma pa- tients. Two floors at the centre al- ready cater to Covid cases. The standalone trauma centre had completely been converted to a Covid-19 hospital since March last year and trauma services were slowly restarted when cases waned after the second wave of the pandemic in the city.
All doctors, nurses, and other staff at the hospital will also be re- deployed as per need, according to the plan.
ie
Celebrating 10 years of bringing truth to light.
Mumbai Press Club congratulates the RedInk Awards 2021 winners for asking powerful questions that light the way for Indian journalism.
Prem Shankar Jha (Senior Journalist and Author) Winner, Lifetime Achievement Award
BUSINESS & ECONOMY - Stories Asia (Print) - ABP News Network (Television)
CRIME - The Caravan (Print)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: ENVIRONMENT
- Down To Earth (Print) - Media One TV (Television)
HEALTH & WELLNESS - The Wire (Print) - Freemedia Interactive (Television)
HUMAN RIGHTS - Huffpost & - The Federal (Joint Winners - Print) - The Quint (Television)
LIFESTYLE & ENTERTAINMENT - Forbes India & - CNN (Joint Winners - Print)
Principal Partner
Late Danish Siddiqui (Chief Photographer, Reuters) Winner, Journalist of the Year
POLITICS - The Indian Express (Print) - NDTV India (Television)
SCIENCE & INNOVATION - Fifty Two (Print) - News18 Lokmat & - India Science Channel (Joint Winners - Television)
SPORTS - The Indian Express (Print)
THE ARTS - The Wire & - Mint (Joint Winners - Print)
THE BIG PICTURE - Outlook (Winner) - ThePrint (Runner-up)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: WOMEN EMPOWERMENT & GENDER EQUALITY
- Mint (Print) - BBC News Marathi (Television)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: MUMBAI PRESS CLUB
Extraordinary Together WINNERS Award Partners B =) ° II 4 = eat , VIS9 COM ADPACTORS Fit peat Indiobuls Faas —-
mumbaipressclub.com
|| || New Delhi
VW :@pressclubmumbai
f :/mumbaipressclub
Lua

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: THE CITY

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CORONAVIRUS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: IN THE CAPITAL

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: VACCINATIONS IN LAST 24 HOURS
1,390,922

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: & E]
Total ‘Vacant
TOTALCASES — | HOSPITALBEDS 13,475 ‘13,252 14,46,415 | icuseos 2710 = 2,727 Cases Recoveries | Deaths Tests
71,696
Dec 30 3081*
923 344 0 | 1313 [| 423, | 0
14,18,227
75,953 25,107 |3,26,51,345
*Total active cases
Caught in delay

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: ANONNA DUTT & ABHINAV RAJPUT NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
WITH RESIDENT doctors from major medical college-associ- ated government hospitals across the country continuing to protest against repeated delays in the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test for Postgraduate Courses (NEET-PG) counselling and admission, services in these hospitals have remained af- fected for 14 days now. The protesting doctors will hold a meeting today where they are expected to take a call on whether or not to end the strike.
The Indian Express spoke to the following aspirants who de- spite clearing NEET-PG held in September have not got admis- sion in PG courses so far, with the crisis putting them under acute financial and social distress.
Dr Shruti Pansare, Pune
The delay has left Pune- based Dr Pansare uncertain not only about her finances but also her future.
“One whole year has been

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: — BRIEFLY —
MBBS student found hanging
New Delhi: A 19-year-old MBBS student from Maulana Azad Medical College allegedly commit- ted suicide by hanging herself inside the college hostel Thursday. DCP (Central) Shweta Chauhan said, “The girl was taken to the hospital but she died.” Aninquiry was conducted at the college which re- vealed that she did not perform well in her ex- ams. She allegedly wrote a suicide note on her note- book that has been recov- ered, said police.
Three held for kidnapping 2-yr-old boy
New Delhi: Days after a two-year-old boy was kidnapped outside his house in Rajouri Garden, police have arrested three persons and appre- hended a juvenile. Police said the incident took place on December 22.
The boy was playing when two of the accused picked him up and fled.
The accused were trying tosell the child toa couple when police caught them.
Traffic rules around CP to kickin on New
Year’s Eve
New Delhi: Traffic Police Thursday said ithas made elaborate arrangements to ensure smooth traffic on New Year’s Eve, particu- larly in and around com- mercial hubs such as Connaught Place. “Res- trictions will be imposed from 8 pm on December 31 around Connaught Place until celebrations end,” said JCP (traffic) Vivek Kishore. ENS
wasted because of the delays in conducting the NEET-PG exam and now counselling. | am al- ready 28 years old. For the next three years I will be studying and working full time for my post- graduation. So, | will be 31 by the time! can even think of marriage — without counselling there is no certainty of where I will end up for the next three years. By the time I try to have children, I will be 32. We tell our patients that if they want to have chil- dren, they should have it by the time they are 30. But I will not have that opportunity,” she said.
“It is not just the financial pressure — | haven’t worked in over a year — there are also so- cial pressures that we need to think about,” Dr Pansare said.
After completing MBBS in 2017 and a one-year internship in 2018, she took NEET-PG for the first time in 2020, but with her rank above 21,000 she could not get the PG course of her choice.
So, she moved to Delhi and started working as a “non-aca- demic” junior resident doctor at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.
She quit her job in September 2020 to prepare for NEET-PG that was originally slated for
Manish Rundla Choudhary; Sarang Bombatkar; Shruti Pansare; Risabh Kohli; Manish Singla
January 2021 but was deferred first to April and then to September.
Dr Pansare, who secured a rank above 9,000 in her second attempt, is now anxiously wait- ing for her PG admission.
“Due to the uncertainty about the NEET-PG dates, I have not been able to join work again.
Also, it would have broken the flow of my studies. Now, hospi- tals are unwilling to hire us be- cause they know that we will quit the job soon (after PG ad- mission),” she said.
Dr Preya Joshi, Bhuj After completing her MBBS and internship, Dr Preya Joshi,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.83]: WAITING TO BOARD
based in Gujarat’s Bhuj, started preparing for NEET-PG six months before the original exam date, January 6, 2021. However, in November 2020, she learned that the exam will be postponed.
The exam dates were then scheduled for April.
“We even received our admit cards, but just two days before the exam it was pushed further.
We were told that the exam will not happen for another four months, so I joined the Covid duty. All this uncertainty adds to mental stress, it has resulted in people getting worse ranks,” she said.
With her rank being above 15,000, Dr Joshi is uncertain
whether she can get admission in her preferred course — anaes- thesia or gynaecology.
“| want to appear for NEET- PG again and its dates have been announced for March 12, 2022, but can it happen if this year’s counselling is not completed yet? I don’t know what to do,” she said.
Like Dr Pansare, Dr Joshi is finding it difficult to land ajobin a hospital as it would know that she is biding time for her PG counselling and admission.
Dr Sarang Bombatkar,
Buldhana
Amid continued delays in the NEET-PG counselling and admis-
sion process, Dr Sarang Bombatkar, based in Maharashtra’s Buldhana, said he has been sitting at home for more than a year now.
“We are wasting so much time. I am not studying, not working. All hospitals say they will hire us only for four or six months, they do not want us because we will quit when the (PG) admissions happen,” he said.
Dr Bombatkar also said that with the change in the NEET-PG admission quotas this year, he is not sure if he would be able to get the courses of his choice such as anaesthesia, ENT, or commu- nity medicine. “The pattern has changed this year and I cannot figure out what I might get. All this uncertainty is adding to my stress,” he added.
Dr Manish Rundla Choudhary, Kota
What is worrying Kota-based Dr Manish Rundla Choudhary is that while he has been at home for the last one year because of uncertainty over the NEET-PG counselling, his resident doctor friends have been exhausted af- ter working round the clock.
Commuters wait outside Rajiv Chowk Metro station, Thursday. New rules that came into effect on Wednesday allow Metro trains to operate at 50% seating
capacity. Tashi Tobgyal
Nuh: Months after ll-year-old —_ Upset by seating cap, went missing, | held for murder

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: PAVNEET SINGH CHADHA GURGAON, DECEMBER 30
FOUR MONTHS after an 11 -year- old boy went missing from his house in Nuh, police Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly kid- napping and murdering the boy and for stealing Rs 3.62 lakh cash from him. Police said probe found that the boy was strangled to death in September near Sariska in Alwar. A police team has gone to Sariska to collect DNA samples.
Police said on August 24, the boy, a class VI student, had gone missing from his house. His fa- ther had initially lodged a miss- ing person’s complaint.
DSP Punhana Shamsher Singh said recently, the family filed another complaint alleging that the boy had taken a bag, which had over Rs 3.62 lakh cash, and had been kidnapped.
“One person, Arif (20) has
been arrested. He has also named another accused. Both are from the same neighbourhood. The victim was known to the duo and they took him to Gurgaon, Bahadurgarh, Hansi, Hisar and Haridwar. As per questioning, the accused said they strangled the boy to death in Sariska about 8- 10 days after he went missing.
Their intention was to steal the money that the victim had brought. After killing him, they went to Mumbai to spend money.
Inthe past few months, they kept returning to the village to evade suspicion,” said DSP Singh.
Speaking to The Indian Express on Thursday, the boy's fa- ther, a farmer, said for four months, the family had been liv- ing in uncertainty. “Every day we feared someone would kill him since he was carrying so much cash. People kill for much less.
Our fear came true. All we want is justice...” he said.
He said a week before his son was allegedly kidnapped, he had sold a plot for over Rs 5 lakh: “I took Rs 32,000 to deposit in the bank...and kept Rs 3.62 lakh in my almirah. Word had spread in the neighbourhood that! had sold the plot. The accused hatched a con- spiracy to lure my son and kid- napped him to steal the cash.”
Alleging laxity by police, the father said he shared all leads with them: “Had they acted sooner, my son would be alive.”
Police denied the allegations.
DSP Singh said, “Initially the fam- ily said they didn’t suspect any- one. A few days after the incident, the boy called his cousin and said he was in Mathura and was safe.
He also told them he had given Rs 50,000 to his cousin and taken the rest of the cash. We brought the cousin in for questioning too. The accused were trying to mislead the family at the time.” Police are looking for the second accused.
‘To ENCOURAGE GIRLS TO CHOOSE SCIENCE AS A CAREER’
ITT-D kicks off STEM mentorship program for

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.66]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
THE INDIAN Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi Thursday launched the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathe- matics) Mentorship Program for Class XI girls from government schools to encourage them to choose science as their career.
“The primary objectives of the program, designed for Class XI girl students, are to train young students to think cre- atively about science and inno- vation, to provide them novel
hands-on experience in solving research problems, and to help them form a stronger knowl- edge foundation,” the institute said in a statement.
For the program, 10 girls from various Kendriya Vidyalayas in the city have been shortlisted for now, who will be mentored by professors from IIT-D in their chosen topics of interest. They will also get access to research scholars under these professors.
During the mentorship pe- riod, they will be exposed to “foundational concepts in STEM disciplines, and also learn the ex- perimental methods and tech-
niques used in science labs”.
Speaking about the program, IIT-D Director V Ramgopal Rao said, “STEM needs to have more women participation. Through the mentorship program initi- ated by IIT-Delhi, schoolgirls will get exposure to some of the world-class labs and research work going on here. lam hopeful this mentorship at IIT-Delhi will prove to be a turning point in their lives and they would be mo- tivated to enter the world of sci- ence and technology and help so- ciety with their research work.” Among those shortlisted is Disha Rathor from KV JNU, who
The girls will be mentored by professors from IIT-D. Archive
is working with her mentor on cryptography and secure com-
commuters damage DTC buses; 6 arrested

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
A GROUP of commuters who were unable to board DTC buses due to the 50% seating cap al- legedly vandalised 4-5 buses and blocked MB Road around 8 am on Thursday. Police said they ar- rested four men, two women and apprehended a juvenile for destruction of public property and violating Covid guidelines.
Videos showing people protesting and damaging bus windows went viral on social media. In one of the videos, a large gathering, in front of buses on the road, clash with police.
Windshields of buses are dam- aged and policemen are seen pushing people with lathis.
Additional DCP (South) M Harsha Vardhan said, “The inci-
puter science. “I think I could learn from the experience, and from the experienced faculty. I think this will be good for my ca- reer,” she said.
Sanmita Paul from KV RK Puram said she was very enthu- siastic about the different phases of the program. “I’m especially looking forward to the research activities and lectures by IIT pro- fessors...| would like to thank IIT- Delhi for giving us girls this op- portunity to learn and explore more than just reading text- books in our school,” she said.
The program will have three levels. “A two-week winter proj-
dent took place due to non-avail- ability of seats in buses in view of Covid-related restrictions.”
Benita Mary Jaiker, DCP (South), said, “We received sev- eral calls regarding a traffic snarl near Jamia Hamdard. We reached the spot and found that a group of commuters were protesting and instigating others to siton the road as bus drivers and marshalls weren't letting them in. The driver could only allow 17 passen- gers inside as per the govern- ment’s latest guidelines.”
Police staff tried talking to the people to allow traffic to pass to no avail. “The group started damaging buses. We deployed women police staff to help. Staff neither used force nor lathi- charged anyone. We were neu- tralising the situation. One po- liceman sustained injuries in the process,” said DCP Jaiker.
“First the NEET-PG dates, and now even the counselling dates are uncertain. I was not able to plan my studies. And this is the reason I cannot join a job too — either I have to let go of my PG seat or two-month salary (at a hospital) for not serving notice period (after taking admission in a PG course),” he said.
Dr Choudhary said his friends who got through NEET- PG in 2020 have worked tire- lessly through the two Covid waves. “The third-year resident doctors (in final year PG) will soon be relieved to be able to study for their final exams and only one batch of PG students (in second-year) will remain in the colleges (and hospitals),” he said, referring to the fact that fresh PG admissions have remained frozen.
Dr Risabh Kohli, Delhi
The 28-year-old resident of Delhi’s C R Park underlines the point that he lost one year due to the NEET-PG episode. Dr Kohli, who had finished his graduation from Armenia’s Yerevan State Medical University, cleared NEET-PG this year.
Echoing the anguish of other
Ss, NEET-PG aspirants stare at uncertain future
young PG aspirants, Dr Kohli says itis disturbing that despite clear- ing the exam, they can neither take admission in PG courses, nor can they join a job.
There have been delays and uncertainty about everything re- lated to NEET-PG, he said, be- moaning that “the third Covid wave is at your door and this is the time when things should have been expedited instead of getting delayed”.
Dr Manish Singla, Faridabad
Dr Singla (28), who lives in Faridabad, graduated from Karnataka’s Basaveshwara Medical College. After preparing for two years, he qualified for NEET-PG this year — and contin- ues to wait for admission now.
“Almost a year has been wasted.
The January NEET exam was de- layed and pushed to September.
The new reservation policy fur- ther delayed things,” he said.
The situation, Dr Singla said, is grimmer for those PG aspi- rants who did not get good ranks. He also maintained that the aspirants were caught in un- certainty of whether they should Wait for counselling or land a job.
Multiplex body meets Sisodia, seeks reopening of theatres in city

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE MUMBAI, DECEMBER 30
FOLLOWING THE Delhi govern- ment's decision to close theatres in the wake of a spike in Covid cases, representatives of the Multiplex Association of India (MAI) met Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Thursday seek- ing reopening of cinemas with pre-emptive measures. Other cinemas and industry bodies have supported this appeal.
The delegation, led by Ajay Bijli, chairman of PVR Limited, highlighted the adverse eco- nomic impacts faced by the en- tertainment industry due to multiple lockdowns and restric- tions since March 2020. In its ap- peal to Sisodia, he was informed that the decision to shut down cinemas has caused uncertainty.
Expressing his concerns, Bijli said: “We fully understand the challenges faced by the govern- ment in these tough times.
However, instead of closing cin- emas, we urge them to consider introducing a ‘double vaccina- tion requirement’ for gaining entry into cinemas, as is the case in some _ states.
Alternatively, a 50% seating cap can be reintroduced.”
The association fears that
several films, scheduled to re- lease in January such as RRR, Radhe Shyam and Prithviraj, will probably change their release dates. Shahid Kapoor-starrer film Jersey, which was supposed to release on December 31, has cancelled its theatrical exhibi- tion. According to the MIA letter, Jersey is now being considered for “a direct OTT release”.
“Instead of releasing their films at cinemas or waiting for relaxation, producers are finding it more lucrative to release on streaming platforms leaving cin- emas withno newfilms. As are- sult, the industry has run into an extremely adverse situation and is inneed of urgent help from the government,” the letter stated.
Speaking to The Indian Express, Nitin Tej Ahuja, CEO of the Producers Guild of India, ex- tended his support to the MIA’s plea and said, “Theatrical release is the primary source of revenue for filmmakers. The producers of the movie ‘83’ held it over for al- most two years. Even though it was finally released on
December 24, people in Delhi can’t watch it now.”
The multiplex body argued that cinemas are equipped to manage crowds with a hygienic environment while maintaining social distancing norms.
Theatres are shut under yellow alert restrictions. Archive
Class XI girls, 10 shortlisted
ect, starting from the end of December 2021 and ending in early January 2022, an online lec- ture series, consisting of modules in Chemistry, Physics, Biology, Mathematics and some Engineering branches. These lec- tures will be delivered by IIT-Delhi professors between February and April 2022. During this period, stu- dents will also be interacting con- stantly with their mentors on their specific projects. Summer project (3-4 weeks in May-June 2022), where students will get hands-on experience in labs, and finalise their project reports with their mentors,” the institute said.
New Delhi
The project areas will cover different disciplines such as computer science, chemistry, mechanical engineering, physics, and biological sciences.
“In the future, there are plans to have participation from stu- dents from other regions in the country and turn the program into a residential one. The STEM Mentorship Program for school- girls is the second academic out- reach initiative by IIT-Delhi for school students. In September 2021, the Institute had launched SciTech Spins lecture series for students from class IX-XII. Under this initiative, IIT-Delhi professors
engaged in cutting-edge research in science, technology and allied fields deliver online lectures and conduct laboratory demonstra- tions every month,” IIT-D said.
“The program will give girls some required traction for getting into the fields of science and tech- nology in the future. We believe students should be exposed to scientific concepts at an early age, tobe able to appreciate the rigour of academic research, and to build up confidence to take up academ- ics as a career when they grow up,” said Pritha Chandra, Associate Dean, Academic Outreach and New Initiatives.
eile oh b foen tite ae

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: BUSINESS BLASTERS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.65]: RULE BREAKERS
As kids, members of this tech start-up would ee
often place their palms against their ears to | We pretend to make phone calls. They thought :
what if they are actually able to make calls using just their hands. This prompted them to develop a bluetooth ring that can make and receive calls while making their childhood fantasy come true!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: NEXT INNOVATION
getting charged. Due to this he was unable tot q take online classes during lockdown. His friends X= shared similar experiences from their hometowns. To address this problem, this start- up came up with the idea of creating solar power , banks!
wel
ay :
Every Durga Puja, Hemant wanted to buy \e
decorative items which his parents refused on y \ 7 account of budget constraints. Hemant then spoke 3 ¥ i with his friends and together they decided to make @& /? t
affordable festival decorations for people of all income groups. They have now expanded their product lines to include different types of lamps too!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: SS
: e e i - & 9) | ¥ | | | i tu ic ° il ry at 7pm @ | r m
F www.thebusinessblasters.in |
Directorate of Education, Government of N.C.T. of Delhi \ TT TT TT New Delhi =n

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: (GOVT 6 POLITICS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.88]: LANGUAGE SKILLS
DURING A media interaction on Thursday, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar surprised many with this lan- guage skills. After declaring that he can take questions in English, Hindi and Punjabi, he went on to interact with a reporter in Tamil, revealing that he has passed his school certificate course in the language. Besides, the Chief Minister said he is learning Japanese these days to interact with the large expat population in his state. If you have to build heart-to-heart relations with someone, you have to speak in their language, Khattar said.
Ex!IT DOOR
THREE CONGRESS MLAs from Punjab — Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Singh Laddi - have joined the BJP in the past 10 days, delivering a jolt to the grand old party ahead of the Assembly elections. But the buzz in the party is that there could be more exits coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Punjab on January 5.
The names of many leaders, including a couple of ministers, are being talked about in this connection. Asked about the speculation, one senior leader merely said, “Let's see who all remain after January 5.” The Congress's central leaders are now said to be keeping their fingers crossed.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: FRESH TASK
CONSUMER AFFAIRS Secretary Leena Nandan will bid adieu to the Department of Consumer Affairs on Friday to take up her next assignment as Environment Secretary. On Thursday, her colleagues at Krishi Bhawan organised a farewell that was attended by Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Food Ashwini Choubey. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey was also present on the occasion. A 1987-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, Leena Nandan will hand over charge of the department to her successor Rohit Kumar Singh on Friday.
Moga rally put off as Rahul goes abroad, disquiet in state Cong

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: KANCHAN VASDEV

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: & MANOJ CG CHANDIGARH, NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
DAYS AFTER Congress announced that Rahul Gandhi will kick offthe party’s campaign for the forth- coming elections in Punjab by ad- dressing a rally in Moga on January 3, the party postponed the event after it emerged that the senior party leader had flown abroad ona personal visit.
Sources said RahulleftIndiaon Wednesday, a day after attending the party’s 137th foundation day event at the AICC headquarters in Delhi. Sources said he is set to ring in the new year in Italy, where he willspend time with his aging ma- ternal grandmother, like last year.
“Rahul Gandhi is on a brief personal visit. The BJP and its me- dia friends should not spread ru- mours unnecessarily,” Congress communication department head Randeep Surjewala said, confirming that the former Congress president was abroad.
Party sources said Rahul, who spent nearly three weeks at an undisclosed foreign location in November as well, is expected to address the rallies in Punjab and Goa onJanuary 15 and 16.
Rahul's trip abroad has led to disquiet in the Punjab unit of Congress as it comes at a time when the party is struggling with factionalism and desertions in the
AAP wave after Ch

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: HINA ROHTAKI CHANDIGARH, DECEMBER 30
DELHI CHIEF Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo, Arvind Kejriwal, on Thursday, ar- rived in Chandigarh to hold a vic- tory march to commemorate his party's splendid performance during the recently concluded Chandigarh civic body polls and said that the win in Chandigarh "has sent a strong message across Punjab and started an AAP wave across the state.” Kejriwal on Thursday joined a victory march with his party's victorious councillors and made them take an oath that "they will never take any bribe and will
Left India on Wednesday ona ‘brief personal visit’
run-up to the Assembly elections.
The Moga rally was expected to be ashow of unity, said a party leader who did not want to be named.
The party had started making arrangements, and the venue had been finalised, said state party leaders. “We did not even know he has gone abroad. We learnt about it only after the Opposition raised the issue and Surjewala de- fended the visit,” said a leader.
“The rally has been postponed now. We were hoping that Rahul will be able to bring Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and other leaders on the same stage and the different voices, which are harm- ing the party interests, would be silenced. Also, his (Rahul) absence delays the process of ticket distri- bution,” he said.
While Sidhu has been seeking declaration of Chief Minister can- didate ahead of the polls, assert- ing that he would not be just a showpiece for the elections, a sec- tion of party leaders said they were watching him closely. A party leader said, “We were hop- ing that the top leadership would intervene and control Sidhu. But it seems to be free for all now.”
andig
All parties in UP want polls on time, will issue guidelines: EC

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: LALMANI VERMA LUCKNOW, DECEMBER 30
DAYS AFTER a judge of the Allahabad High Court urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "take strong steps" and con- sider "stopping and postponing" rallies, meetings and elections in view of the rising cases anda possible third wave, the Election Commission said Thursday that all parties in Uttar Pradesh want the Assembly elections to be held as per schedule.
“All the political parties, without any difference of opin- ion, said that elections should be conducted on time while follow- ing Covid protocol,” said Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra, speaking to reporters on the conclusion of a three-day visit to the state to assess poll preparedness.
Asked about the High Court remark, the CEC replied:
"Cognizance of that will be taken."
Chandra said some parties, during their meeting with the EC delegation, expressed concern over flouting of Covid rules at election rallies, and also sought curbs on the number of rallies.
Amit Shah with CM Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow. PTI
No ‘bahubalis’ in Yogi rule, just Bajrang Bali, says Shah

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: LALMANI VERMA LUCKNOW, DECEMBER 30
UNION HOME Minister Amit Shah on Thursday hit out at Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, claiming she feared defeat in the upcoming assem- bly polls and urging her to step out for campaigning.
He also invoked Lord Hanuman to praise the Yogi Adityanath government, saying just “Bajrang Bali” was visible in his regime, not “bahubalis” (musclemen).
Addressing a public meeting in Moradabad, Shah said: “The SP (Samajwadi Party) and BSP cannot develop UP. Behenji ki to abhi thand hi nahi udi hai. Yeh bhaibheet hain. Behanji chunav aa gaya thoda bahar nikaliye. Baad me yehna kehna kimaine prachar nahi kiya (Behenjiis yet to get re- lief from cold weather. She is fearing (defeat). Behenji, step out as elections have come. Don’t say later that you had not cam- paigned),” he said.
The Union minister said even if “bua, babua and behen (refer- ring to Mayawati, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress’s Priyanka Gandhi Vadra)” came together, they cannot win against BJP workers.
Targeting Akhilesh for men- tioning Muhammad Ali Jinnah in an earlier speech, Shah said, “He does know name of ganna (sugarcane) and keep repeating Jinnah, Jinnah, Jinnah. . Jinnah is of no use here.”
vo ee i
Supporters greet Kejriwal in Chandigarh. Jasbir Malhi
also not let anyone do anything wrong.” He said that now that they have won, "they [the new
councillors] should move be- yond party lines and work to- gether" to bring Chandigarh back
arh win
CEC Sushil Chandra (left) and Election Commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey in Lucknow on Thursday. Vishal Srivastav
Asked whether the EC would consider postponing the elections, the CEC said: “EC will execute the responsibility assigned to it as per the Constitution. While executing that responsibility, whatever will be required to consider -- either rising Covid numbers or manag- ing the increasing rallies -- elec- tions will be announced after con- sidering all that.”
Asked about ongoing politi- cal rallies with huge gatherings, he said the EC's responsibility begins after the Model Code of Conduct comes into effect.
Before that, it is the state admin- istration's job, he said.
He said the EC has discussed
the issue with the Union Health Secretary, State Health Secretary, Chief Secretary, and all district election officers. "Whenever elec- tions will be announced, this point will be definitely consid- ered that how the big rallies are to be managed. Whether digital communication will have to be increased... We will issue a guide- line in this regard... It's adynamic situation. Considering all that, guidelines will be issued," he said.
"I have been told that 86 per cent of people in the state have got the first dose and 49 per cent the second dose of Covid vac- cine. We have been assured that in 15-20 days, all eligible people
will get their first dose. We have asked for increasing vaccina- tion,” he said.
The CEC said some parties complained about the "biased" attitude of some police and ad- ministration officials. He said the complaints will be probed, and action will be taken. He said over 5,000 police personnel have been transferred in recent days.
Newly appointed UP Chief Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra, who took charge on Thursday, said that in his meeting with the Election Commissioners, they expressed concerns over the Covid situation. “I assured them that] will sit with my officers and prepare a strategy to vaccinate everyone,” Mishra said.
Meanwhile, the Congress said EC should take an independent decision on holding the polls.
“EC must remember that the countrywide data of Covid-19 infection, its spread... the dou- bling time, the results of genome sequencing and the impact of the vaccines on Omicron (vari- ant)is with the government, and not with the political parties,” Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said in New Delhi.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: WITHENS, DELHI
Previous Uttarakhand govts looted with both hands: PM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE DEHRADUN, DECEMBER 30
TARGETING PREVIOUS state gov- ernments in Uttarakhand ahead of the Assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday said they “looted Uttarakhand with both hands” and tried to save their govern- ments even atthe cost of the state.
He was addressing a rally af- ter inaugurating and laying the foundation of projects worth over Rs 17,500 crore in Haldwani.
This included the inaugura- tion of projects worth Rs 3,420 crore and foundation-laying of projects worth Rs 14,127 crore.
The inaugurated projects in- clude three stretches of the Char Dham all-weather road which have been widened, the Nagina- Kashipur National Highway, the Suring Gad hydel project and sewage work under the Namami Gange programme at Nainital.
“We all know how many rivers start from Uttarakhand, but since independence people here have witnessed two more streams. One is keeping the mountains away from develop- ment, and the other is working day and night for the develop- ment of the mountains. People of
PM Narendra Modi in Haldwani, Uttarakhand on Thursday.
the first stream always want to keep you away from develop- ment. They kept running from the hard work required to bring roads, electricity and water to the mountains. Several generations here left Uttarakhand in the ab- sence of good roads and facilities.
Today I feel satisfied that people of Uttarakhand and the country are exposing those involved in this destruction,” he said.
Accusing previous govern- ments of “looting Uttarakhand with both hands” since the state's formation 20 years ago, PM Modisaid that hindering de- velopmental projects was their trademark.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: KARNATAKA URBAN LOCAL BODY POLLS
Cong defeats BJP, wins most wards

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE BENGALURU, DECEMBER 30
AHEAD OF the 2023 Assembly elections, the Congress in Karnataka Thursday outper- formed the BJP in the polls held for 58 urban local bodies (ULBs) in 20 districts.
Congress emerged as the sin- gle largest party, winning 501 of 1,184 wards that went to the polls on December 27. BJP won 433 wards and the JD(S) won 45.
A total of 195 Independents also won in the elections. AAP and Janata Party have won one seat each, while AIMIM and SDPI
e e e : Kejriwal to number 1 during the Swacch Survekshan.
"Chandigarh ke nateejon ke baad Punjab mein ek lehar si daud gayi hai....Chandigarh mein ab shapath grehan karne aayenge Punjab jeet ke (The vic- tory in Chandigarh has started an AAP wave. We will again return to Chandigarh after winning the Punjab elections)," Kejriwal said during the victory march (Vijay Yatra) that started from Aroma Chowk in Sector 22 and ended in Sector 23.
Addressing a gathering at the end of Thursday's victory march, Kejriwal said, "You people of Chandigarh have achieved an amazing feat. This is nothing short of a miracle.”
won two and six, respectively.
Congress secured a majority in 20 urban local bodies. BJP, meanwhile, won 15. The JD(S) won one ULB. The rest of the ULBs have thrown up mixed re- sults with no party being able to secure a majority.
Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said his party had performed well when the overall results were considered.
But he also blamed losses on ar- eas with a high population of mi- norities.
“We have performed better than the last time though we should have performed better in this election,” he said. "If you ob-
“Uttarakhand has completed 20 years of its formation. In these years, you have also seen such people running the government who used to say ‘you may loot Uttarakhand, but save my gov- ernment’,” he said.
On the Lakhwar project, he said it was first thought of in 1976, and that it was his govern- ment which finally laid its foun- dation. “Look at my record of the last 7 years and all my time goes to searching for such old things and making them right,” he said.
The PM said these inaugu- rated development projects will ensure better connectivity and health for the people of Haldwani.
serve, as these places have con- centration of minority commu- nity voters, we have not been get- ting good results, but this time due to efforts, in places like Gadag and others, we have got success.” The BJP also lost in Bommai’s constituency. On this, he said: “We had never won there (in Bankapur), minority voters are 65 per cent, it won't be right for me tosay more. Sameis the case with Guttal.... we will continue with our development work there also.” Karnataka Congress party chief DK Shivakumar said, “Election results in recent times have indicated a Congress wave in the state...” PTIINPUTS
China now raises heat on Arunachal, names 15 more sites

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: SHUBHAUJIT ROY NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
ADAY after China announced its own standardised names for 15 more places in Arunachal Pradesh, which it claims as “South Tibet”, Delhi reacted sharply and said the state is an integral part of India and “assign- ing invented names to places...does not alter this fact”.
China's Ministry of Civil Affairs announced Wednesday that it had standardised in Chinese characters, and the Tibetan and Roman alphabet, the names of 15 places in Zangnan, the Chinese name for Arunachal Pradesh, the state-run Global Times reported.
This is in accordance with regulations on geographical names issued by the State Council, China's Cabinet, the re- port said.
Among the official names of the 15 places, with longitude and latitude, eight are residential ar- eas, four are mountains, two are rivers and one is a mountain pass, the report said.
This is the second batch of standardised names of places in Arunachal given by China, after six other places in 2017.
Responding to China's latest move, Ministry of External Affairs’ official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We have seen such reports. This is not the first time China has attempted such a renaming of places in the state of Arunachal Pradesh.
China had also sought to assign such names in April 2017.
Arunachal Pradesh has always been, and will always be, an inte- gral part of India. Assigning in- vented names to places in
Beijing aggressive @ approach

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: EXPLAINED
CHINA ASSIGNING names of places in Arunachal Pradesh is part of its strat- egy to reiterate territorial claims with India. In the past, Beijing has always objected to visits by Indian leaders - Presidents, Prime Ministers and sen- ior ministers - to the north-eastern state. In re- cent months, there are re- ports of China establishing villages along the Line of Actual Control. The nam- ing is part of the country’s aggressive expansionist approach.
Arunachal Pradesh does not al- ter this fact.”
The India-China border dis- pute covers the 3,488 km long LAC, and Beijing regularly protests visits of top Indian lead- ers and officials to Arunachal Pradesh to reaffirm its claim.
The eight residential areas in China's second batch of names are Séngkezong and Daglungzong in Cona County of Shannan Prefecture; Mani'gang, Duding and Migpain in Medog County of Nyingchi; Goling and Damba in Zayu County of Nyingchi; and, Mejag in Lhunze County of Shannan Prefecture, the Global Times reported. The four mountains are Wamo Ri, Déu Ri, Lhiinzhub- Ri and Kunmingxingzé Feng, it said. The two rivers are Xenyogmo He and Dulain He, and the mountain pass isnamed Se La, the report said.
BJP: Pawar speaking half-truth according to his convenience

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: MANOJ MORE PUNE, DECEMBER 30
A DAY after NCP chief Sharad Pawar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made an offer for an alliance with his party af- ter the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly elections, the state BJP uniton Thursday said Pawar “was speaking only the half-truth... ac- cording to his convenience”.
“What Pawar said was only the half-truth... And he is speak- ing as per his convenience,” state BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhaye told The Indian Express Thursday.
Upadhaye said party leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had already spoken about what transpired during those days. “We do not wish to speak about the episode again,” he said.
At a book launch in Pune Wednesday, Pawar, during a conversation with Loksatta Editor Girish Kuber, said that PM Modi had made an offer to him for an alliance with his party af- ter the 2019 Assembly election results. Pawar said he had re- jected the offer.
Responding to Upadhaye's comments, Shiv Sena spokesper- son Sanjay Raut said, "Since Sharad Pawar is saying it, then it has to be true. During that time,
BJP had become desperate to form the government in Maharashtra. They were trying to establish contact with differ- ent people, including Ajit Pawar and our people (Sena leaders). I was aware that Pawar had re- ceived the offer (from BJP) and he had also spoken to us about this.
At that time, we were not hiding anything from one another.
There was nothing secret about...
who was meeting and holding discussions, we knew every- thing. There was transparency among us and BJP was probably not aware of this. Because of this transparency, they could not form the government."
Along with Pawar, Raut is considered one of the architects of the Maha Vikas Aghadi gov- ernment, which came into being after the Shiv Sena approached the Congress and NCP about forming an alliance. The Sena had earlier ended its decades- long alliance with the BJP in the state after the two parties fell out over who would get the chief minister's post.
Praveen Darekar, opposition leader in the state Legislative Council, said: “Whatever hap- pened between the two leaders, only they know ofit. Let’s not dig out the past. The MVA govern- ment is now in place. Alliances happen in politics, there is noth- ing new aboutit.”
Rajput factor back in Rajasthan spotlight

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: DEEP MUKHERJEE JAIPUR, DECEMBER 30
THE INAUGURAL light-and- sound show at Chittorgarh Fort, opened virtually by Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Monday evening, was forced to stop midway after local BJP MP CP Joshi and some members of the Rajput community objected toasection inits script involving the 13th century Delhi sultan Alauddin Khilji and Mewar queen Rani Padmini.
The show could resume on Tuesday after the Chittorgarh dis- trict administration removed the disputed portion of the script.
The BJP leaders were quick to tar-
get the Gehlot-led Congress gov- ernment in the matter.
The Rajasthan elections may be two years away, but the row arising out of objections from a section of the Rajput community and the Opposition leaders’ bid to train their guns on the ruling party has put the spotlight back on the Rajput factor and its salience in state politics.
Going after the Gehlot dispen- sation, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, a Rajput leader, charged that the Congress government was not concerned about the “asmita” (pride) of Rajasthan.
Shekhawat is known to have a strained equation with the state’s top BJP leader and former
New Delhi
CM Vasundhara Raje and is con- sidered to be positioning himself as one of the principal chal- lengers to her supremacy.
Shekhawat claimed that the controversy surrounding the light-and-sound show was “nota simple matter”. He alleged that the show's contentious depiction of Alauddin Khilji and Padmini was done as part of “appease- ment” politics, and that “second class treatment is being meted out to Hindus ever since the Congress.
came to power in the state”.
The Rajput leaders claim that their community constitutes 11- 12 per cent of Rajasthan’s popu- lation, spread throughout the state, with sizeable presence in many constituencies. Rajputs
have been traditional vote base of the BJP in the state.
However, the political equa- tions had changed ahead of the December 2018 elections to the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, when several things had turned the Rajput commu- nity against the then Vasundhara-led BJP government.
The significance of the Rajput factor in Rajasthan politics could be gauged from the presence of leaders from across the political spectrum at the diamond jubilee celebrations of the Shree Kshatriya Yuvak Sangh, a social organisation of Rajputs, that was held at Jaipur earlier this month.
FULL REPORT ON www.indianexpress.com

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021
Express NETWORK
Trials in Muzaffarnagar cases and gold-smuggling trail winners in Investigative Reporting category

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
FROM INVESTIGATING the after- math of a riot to following the trail of gold smugglers along the Indo-Nepal border, they dug deep to uncover the truth.
Kaunain Sheriff M of The Indian Express is the winner in the Investigative Reporting cate- gory for print, and S Mahesh Kumar of Manorama News is the winner of the award for broad- cast media.
Sheriff's investigation -- which resulted in a three-part series called ‘The Muzaffarnagar Whitewash’ -- revealed that in the six years following the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013, all the 158 men accused of murder, gang rape and arson had walked free. Sheriff scrutinised court

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: TN

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: GATEW

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: DESTRIPARKS
TVS st
Poor
>
EXCELLENCE qORHALASay
AwarDS
Conenie Marteer
Hedice
(Pekan oo hee Spores ol Cation
records, testimonies of com- plainants and witnesses and in-
Kaunain Sheriff M
S Mahesh Kumar
terviewed officials to discover that 53 men accused of murder had been let off.
“The first challenge was to ac- cess the documents. Rape cases are in-house proceedings so you cannot enter the court to witness the trials. It took days, some- times even weeks, to get these documents. The delay in the tri- als was another challenge. The
Assocate Pargners
oy

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ‘AY

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: LTD.
SR(7) 4M TheHinduZone.com
teldieg Fee Careet, Coaching, ¢
wares
court would set a date for the hearing and the defence kept asking for another date. I had to travel from Delhi to Muzaffarnagar every time the court fixed a date and around 85 per cent of the time, I returned without anything when the trial was deferred. The third chal- lenge was language. All the doc- uments and court recordings
were in Hindi which wasn’t easy to translate. So it took time to identify the glaring loopholes in the investigation,” says Sheriff.
The miscarriage of justice was grave. “It showed the prejudice inthe system as the state govern- ment did not appeal against any of the acquittals, especially the rape cases, in the High Court. We also found how victim protection during the trials was totally com- promised,” adds Sheriff.
Kumar's investigative series, Operation Nepal Gold, exposed the gold smuggling racket along the porous Indo-Nepal border where operators took advantage of lenient check posts.
“We travelled along the dan- gerous routes through which gold is smuggled into the coun- try by evading all kinds of taxes.
We started our investigation by going to Kathmandu. We trav-
Powered By
oft fears fae dled, qerist, nexmeer
elled from Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu to different places along with the gold carrier to col- lect information and film secret visuals of the illegal trade. We also gathered information by meeting some carriers in Nepal jails. In the jail and at the check- posts, we used spy cameras to avoid being caught,” says Kumar.
“After we exposed the names of Kerala-based smuggling mafia kingpins and details of the smug- gling dens in Dubai, we again faced several threats from the mafia. The gold carriers who helped us unearth the smuggling routes and activities now get con- stant threats to lives,” adds Kumar.
After the expose, the Customs and DRI launched special probes tocheck the gold flow, leading to a 25-kg gold haul from Thiruvananthapuram airport.
Banking Partever
— os
| SemomndE (if) Union Boat om EES

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: HYDERPORA ENCOUNTER
Return son’s body: Father of killed Ramban youth files petition in HC

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE JAMMU, DECEMBER 30
THE FATHER of Amir Magray, one of the four people killed in an en- counter in Hyderpora area of Srinagar on November 15, on Thursday filed a writ petition in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh High Court, seeking the return of his son's body, saying he was in- nocent and citing his family's long contribution in the fight against terrorism.
Police, who have so far re- turned the bodies of two local Kashmir residents to their fami- lies, have not handed over Amir’s body to his family yet, saying he was an associate of the Pakistani militant who was also killed in
the encounter.
Mohammad Latief filed his petition through counsel
Deepika Singh Rajawat and Mohammad Arshad Chowdhary two days after a Special Investigation Team of J&K Police, which probed the encounter, said that Amir, the youth from Ramban district in Jammu Division, was a militant.
In his petition, Latief said, “.. That being close to Amir, the petitioner knew everything good and bad about him, thus can state onoath that his son was never in- volved into any anti-national ac- tivities or was associated with any such outfit that conspires to bring harm to the nation.”
Invoking Article 21 of the Constitution, which extends the right to have decent burial as per religious ceremonies and rules, for his son, the petitioner said he has been instrumental in fight- ing and curbing militancy in Gool Singaldan area by working as a
civilian volunteer with the Army.
Referring to an incident of August 6, 2005, when he along with his wife and other family members killed a Lashkar-e- Toiba militant who had barged into his house and opened fire on the inmates, the petitioner said he was conferred the state bravery award in 2012 by the J&K government.
“That apart... the petitioner has been well appreciated by the Indian Army for his service towards the nationineliminating militancy in his area -- Gool Sangaldan, Ramban,” the petition said.
In view of the family's sup- port to the Army, the petitioner said he has remained vulnerable to attacks, owing to which secu- rity was provided to him and his family, which is still in place out- side their house.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: (WITHINPUTS FROM PTI)
Banaras Locomotive Works seeks to expand earnings through exports

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.54]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE VARANASI, DECEMBER 30
BANARAS LOCOMOTIVE Works (BLW),a production unit of Indian Railways, is planning to expand onits earnings through manufac- turing locomotives for export.
In 2021, it had completed an order of six 3,000 HP Cape Gauge locomotives to Mozambique.
After the agreement for the order was made with Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) in November 2020, the lo- comotives were handed over from March to August this year, and it received an order fora sev- enth locomotive in September.
“The Mozambique order is significant because the entire thing was completed during Covid times. We got the order in
November 2020... In such little time, it is difficult to complete an international order, that too when over 1,000 of our staff were down with Covid in April and May. Another thing it did was that it gave supply opportunities to the private sector and public sector. So many firms partnered
Centre notifies new rules for consumer panels

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: HARIKISHAN SHARMA NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
THECENTRE on Thursday notified monetary jurisdiction of con- sumer commissions, with the dis- trict commissions having jurisdic- tion to entertain complaints where value of goods or services paid as consideration does not exceed Rs 50 lakh. The state commissions will have jurisdiction to similar complaints with value of goods or services between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 2 crore, and the National Commission over Rs 2 crore.
The jurisdiction of the com- missions has been notified by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution under the Consumer Protection Act, 2019.
The Act provides a “three-tier quasi-judicial mechanism” for re- dress of consumer disputes: dis- trict commissions, state commis- sions, and _ the _ national commission. The law also provides pecuniary jurisdiction of each tier of consumer commission.
As per existing provisions, dis- trict commissions have jurisdiction toentertain complaints where value of goodsorservices paid asconsider- ationdoesnotexceed Rs 1 crore, state commissions Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore, and national commission above Rs 10 crore.
Giving reasons for fixing a lower limit for district and state
commissions, the ministry said in a statement, “After the Act came into force, itwas observed that ex- isting provisions relating to pecu- niary jurisdiction of consumer commissions were leading to cases which could earlier be filed in National Commission to be filed in State Commissions and cases which could earlier be filed in State Commissions to be filed in District Commissions. This caused a significant increase in workload of District Commissions, leading to rise in pendency and delay in disposal of cases, defeating the very object of securing speedy redressal to consumers as envisaged under the Act.”
It stated, “With regard to revi- sion of pecuniary jurisdiction, Central Government held consul- tation with States/UTs, consumer organizations, law chairs etc. and examined the issues that had cre- ated long pendency of cases in de- tail,” the statement said.
According to the statement, under the law, every complaint is tobe disposed of “as expeditiously as possible”, and attempt is to be made to decide the complaint within a period of three months from the date of receipt of notice bythe “opposite party”, where the complaint does not require analy- sis or testing of commodities and within 5 months if it requires analysis or testing of commodities.
Centre approves Rs 3,000 cr more aid to states for natural disasters
New Delhi: The Union govern- ment has approved additional as- sistance of more than Rs 3,000 crore to six states this year to cover damages caused by natural disasters, a Home Ministry state- ment said Thursday.
Gujarat was granted Rs 1,133.35 crore for Cyclone Tauktae and West Bengal received Rs 586.59 crore for Cyclone ‘Yaas’.
Similarly, for disasters such as floods and landslides during the monsoon, Assam was granted Rs 51.53 crore, Karnataka was given Rs. 504.06 crore, Madhya Pradesh got Rs 600.50 crore and Uttarakhand Rs 187.18 crore.
This assistance is over and above the funds released by the Centre to states in the State Disaster Response Fund. ENS
with us, and a new market opened up for them,” said BLW.
general manager Anjali Goyal.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: PARLIAMENT OF INDIA

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: NEW DELHI
Acharya Narendra Deva University of Agriculture & Technology, Kumarganj, Ayodhya- 224229 (U.P.) Advertisement
Applications are invited from eligible candidates for various posts in the University
on regular basis.
Advertisement No. 7/2021- Twenty Five (25) post of Professor/Scientist.
Advertisement No. 8/2021- Fifty Two (52) post of Associate Professor/Scientist
Advertisement No. 9/2021-
Professor/Scientist
Eighty Five
(85) post of Assistant
Details may be downloaded from the University Website- www.nduat.org.
Applications on prescribed Proforma must reach to the office of the undersigned before 5.00 PM of 28 January, 2022 through Registered/ Speed post only.
Written Examination/Test for Assistant Professors is proposed to be held on
20 February 2022.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: —F
wT
Director Administration & Monitoring
‘4 Lady Hardinge Medical College oA Wie
+ ca ; oxi aa

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.88]: INDIAN COUNCIL OF FORESTRY RESEARCH AND EDUCATION
(An Autonomous Body of Ministry of Enviornment, Forest and Climate Change, Govt. of India) P.O. New Forest, Dehradun - 248 006 (Uttarakhand), India

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PRESS COMMUNIQUE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: STANDING COMMITTEE ON FINANCE INVITES SUGGESTIONS ON THE
WALK-in-INTERVIEW
A Walk-in-interview is scheduled at Media & Extension Division, ICFRE HQ Building, ICFRE, FRI Campus, Dehradun on 17 January 2022 at 11.00 A.M. for recruitment of one JPF in component “Operationalisation of Forestry Extension Strategy and Action Plan for ICFRE”
Position Educational requirement/ Consolidated Fellowship | Duration Experience Stipend per month (in Rs.) . M.Sc in biological science/wood science/ Junior | forestry/agriculture extension/ extension Project | g communication Desirable: Knowledge| Rs. 20,000/- (Twenty 2 Fellow | of MS Office, Report writing, Media} Thousand) only +HRA | 02 Years (JPF) reporting, working knowledge of social media
Terms and Conditions:
1. Only Indian Nationals are eligible.
2. Age limit as on 01-06-2022 is 28 (relaxation in age limit of the candidates belonging to
SC/ST/OBC/Women and Divyangjan upto 5 years).
3. The interest candidates shall submit a scanned copy of their resume along with self attested copies of testimonials and recent passport size 01 photograph with their signed application on or before 14.01.2022 positively through email at adg_mx@icfre.org for further needful at this end.
4. The position is purely temporary and co-terminus with the component.
5. The position can also be terminated at any time by the DDG (Extension), ICFRE without assigning any reason depending on the performance of the candidate.
6. Recruitment for the above temporary position is governed by the rules and regulation of the Indian Council of Forestry Research & Education (ICFRE) and does not guarantee subsequent employment in the Council.
7. The interested candidate may appear before the selection committee with their original certificates, mark sheets with a self-attested photocopy of each and a recent passport size photograph along with the bio-data.
8. No TA/DAwill be paid for attending the Walk-in-Interview.
9. Candidates without Provisional Certificate/Degree Certificate/original mark sheet awarded by the University will not be permitted to attend the Interview.
10. Order of engagement of the selected candidate will be issued subject to availability of fund and approval of the Competent Authority. Tenure mentioned in the advertisement is tentative and liable to be curtailed/extended as per the decision of the Competent
Authority.
11. Ifitis found at any stage of the process or thereafter that the candidates do not fulfill the eligibility criteria, their candidature shall be cancelled without assigning any reason.
Further, the decision of the ICFRE in this regard to the selection process will be final and binding. No correspondence in this regard will be entertained by the Council.
12. Canvassing in any form will disqualify the candidate.
ADG (Media & Extension), Directorate of Extension, ICFRE, Dehradun

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: URGENT REQUIREMENT OF BUILDING ON HIRE FOR ECHS POLYCLINIC AT REWARI (HR)
. Station Commander, Miltary Station Alwar invities applications (offer document) from desirous house owners at Rewari to rent out their building on hire for 2/3 years to Defence Department (Ex Servicemen
Contributory Health Scheme)
2. The desired parameters and conditions of the building are as under:-
(a) PinthArea 4000 Saft approximately.
(b) Location within 3/5 Km to City or within the city/town via-a-vis important hospitals and health facilities loc.
(c) The building shall perferable Ground Floor with at least 10-12 rooms with minimum 3 toilits, electricity and water supply. if with first floor should have suitable ramp for wheel chair and stretcher.
(d) One toilet shall be at entrance of the building
(e) The building should be suitable for placement of medical equiment.
(f) Rent reasonablity certificate for approved rent from local municipality\revenue authorties, to be attached
with the application.
(g) Rent will be paid as per Govt. approved norms and regulations depending open plinth area facilities
type/class of city.
Note: Desirous persons should froward their application by registered post alongwith sketch/blue print to OIC ECHS cell, Station HQs, Alwar by 07 Jan 2022 positively (Contact No.-0144-2980316, 11.00AM to 3.00PM)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: SUBJECT 'STRENGTHENING CREDIT FLOWS TO THE MSME SECTOR '.
The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance is in the process of examining the subject ‘Strengthening credit flows to the MSME sector ' for report thereon to the Parliament. Considering the wider implications of the subject on the economy of the country, the Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri Jayant Sinha, MP have decided to invite memoranda containing views/suggestions from the public in general and Experts/Stakeholders/Organisations, in particular.
2. Those desirous of submitting written memoranda/suggestions to the Committee may send two copies thereof either in English or in Hindi to DIRECTOR (E,F&Estt.), LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT, ROOM NO. 513, PARLIAMENT HOUSE ANNEXE EXTENSION (BLOCK B), NEW DELHI- 110001,
TEL. Nos. 23035759/ 23035758, FAX NUMBER: 23010756 and email
the same to
comfinance @sansad.nic.in within 15 days from the date of publication of this advertisement.).
3. The memoranda/suggestions submitted to the Committee would form part of the records of the Committee and would be treated as ‘confidential’ and enjoy privileges of the Committee.
4. Those who are desirous of appearing before the Committee, besides submitting written memoranda, are requested to specifically indicate so. However, the Committee’s decision in this
regard shall be final.
New Delhi;
Dated: 29 December, 2021
davp 1201/11/0003/21-22
Department of Women an Child Development Govt. Of NCT of Delhi 5th Floor, ISBT Building, Kashmere Gate, New Delhi- 110006.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: MISSING CHILDREN
Description
Photograph
Lines
Sumit (name given by agency) male child aged about 1 day, wheatish complexion, child was i found abandoned in the Cradle placed at the gates of an out Institution (DCCW/PALNA) on 07.10.21. He was produced before the Child Welfare Committee-V, Dilshad Garden and was kept in Delhi Council for Child Welfare (PALNA) via order of CWC-V. FIR was filed at P.S. Civil] |
Sameer, (name given by agency), male child, aged about 8-9 days, Wheatish complexion, child was found abandoned in the Cradle placed at the gates of an our Institution on 05.11.21.
He was produced before the Child Welfare Committee-V, Dilshad Garden and was kept in Delhi Council for Child Welfare (PALNA) via order of CWC-V. FIR was filed at P.S. Civil Lines
on (DCCW/PALNA) on
Civil Lines
Pratham, (name given by agency), Male child, aged about new born child, Wheatish complexion, child was found abandoned in the cradle placed at the gates of an our Institution 17.11.2021. He was produced before Child Welfare Committee-V, Dilshad Garden and was kept in Delhi Council for Child Welfare (PALNA). FIR was filed at P.S.| #
Mannat, (name given by agency), Male child, aged about 2 days, Wheatish Complexion, child was found abandoned in the cradle placed at the gates of an our Institution on (DCCW/PALNA) on 19.11.2021. He was produced before Child Welfare Committee-V, Dilshad Garden and was kept in Delhi Council for Child Welfare (PALNA). FIR was filed at P.S. Civil Lines
Note: Parents/Guardians/Relatives of SI.No. 1 & 2 in case of above mentioned children may contact at address/phone numbers given at SI. No. 1 & 2 given below:-
1. Incharge: Delhi Council for Child Welfare (PALNA), Qudsia Bagh, Yamuna Marg, Civil Lines, Delhi-54 Contact No. 011-23944655/ 011-23968907
2. District Child Protection Unit-Il, Sansakar Ashram Complex, Dilshad Garden, Delhi,
Contact No. 011-22125035
DIP/Shabdarth/0534/2 1-22
Women & Child Development
Please give information to CHILD LINE 1098 about children who need care & amp; protection
New Delhi
F. No. 2-1/2021-Admn.1/ GOVERNMENT OF INDIA DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF HEALTH SERVICES MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
Applications are invited from goal oriented highly motivated and eligible candidates for 01 position of Manager (IT Infrastructure), 02 positions Executive (Portal & Service Delivery) and 02 position of Executive (Facilities and Data Centre on purely contract basis for a period of one year which may be extended on certain terms and conditions. Other terms & conditions, age limit, remuneration, experience etc. may be downloaded from the official website Lady Hardinge Medical College & Smt. S. K. Hospital, New Delhi.
For details login to website: http://Ihmce-hosp.gov.in
(Sunil KS Bhadoria) Deputy Director (Admn.) For & on behalf of Director, LHMC
CSIR-INDIAN INSTITUTE OF INTEGRATIVE MEDICINE Canal Road, JAMMU- 120001(J24) Web Address: https wawnwllim.res.in
APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED FOR THE POSITIONS OF SCIENTISTS SENIOR SCIENTISTS PRINCIPAL SCIENTIST CSIR-lidien Institute of Integrative Mediciie, Jammu POSIR-IM- Jammu, (5 ora ofthe constituent insliluies of CSIR and isa premiar mulli-decipinary RAL institute, under the Ministry of Science & Technology, GOl, engaged in high quality BaD, having primary focus on drug dscovery from natural resources. (imedianal plants and merch! specs) inviles. Online aacicalions from erilluseasic young feaseerchers with prowan track feoord of scianiific achiguamants, who ere ciiimens of inode for (ling ip ot 13 posts oe Scinriists § Servor Sclantets. | Principal Scinnist at CSIR, Jammu, U.T of J&K_ For Advertiement details such 45 benefils under Council Service other conditions, rataxetons, how to apah, mode of paynsent of soplication tes, ais. obaseviibaur Wabsile alway ines in Sais [ARJUN SHARP A] Santer Cantrallar of Administration
davp 17148/11/0025/2122

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: RAISONI GROUP OF INSTITUTIONS
345, Shradha House, Opp. Kasturchand Park, Kingsway, Nagpur 440001.
Phones : 0712-6617181 | 82 / 83 | Fax No. 0712-6630782 | www.raisoni.net
©
RAISONI GROUP — a vision beyond —
Raisoni Group is leading educational brand in Central India looking for outstanding candidate for the following post who believes in his | her dreams, wanted to make career with leading Group and wish to grow with exceptionally good academic and research record.
Post Program Qualification . Ph.D. (Law) with minimum 10 yrs | - Principal Law of teaching experience. 2 Associate Professor| LL.B. (3 Yrs.) LL.M. | NET | SET | Ph.D. ] Assistant Professor |B.A. LL.B. (5 Yrs.) with relevant experience Ss
© The salary will be paid as per the qualification and experience in their respective field.
e The interested candidates should send their Bio-Data along with certificates and photographs on the above address or copy to careert@raisoni.net within 7 days from date of advertisement.
Preference will be given to Ph.D candidates.
e Contact No. : 9146199619.
SNAGPUR =PUNE =JALGAON = AMRAVATI = cHHINDWaRA |) CotellgelSDOEIUM(S\

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.82]: INDIAN RAILWAYS
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS (RAILWAY BOARD) Ministry of Railways, Government of India invites applications from eligible persons for the following posts in National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) which is implementing Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed train project:
(i) Director (Works) (ii) Director (S&T System) For detailed advertisement, kindly www. indianrailways.gov.in/railwayboard The applications, along with enclosures may be sent to :
Shri Manoj Kumar, Director/Deputation, Ministry of Railways, Room No.107, Rail Bhawan, New Delhi-110001.
Last date for receipt of applications is 17.30 hrs. on 31.01.2022.
Applications received after the last date will not be entertained and no correspondence will be entertained in this regard. Ofeaa Cl
refer to

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: APPEAL FOR IDENTIFICATION
General public is hereby informed that an unidentified deadbody of male namely Sunil Siddanta S/o Siddant Nigari R/o TA-6, Rajibai Chawl, Mahim Causway (West) General Arun Kumar Metro, Mumbai City Age :
About 41 years, Complexion
Wheatish, Height : 5'2", Build : Thin, Face : Oval, wearing Red & Black colour Strip T-Shirt & grey colour track suit jacket and lower, was found unconscious on 16.12.2021. He is admitted in LBS Hospital, Delhi, where doctor declare him brought dead. In this regard a DD No. 72A dated 17.12.2021 has been lodged at P.S. Madhu Vihar, Delhi.
Any person having any information or clue about the deceased may kindly inform to the undersigned on the
following address or telephone nos.
SHO : P.S. Madhu Vihar, Delhi Tel. No. : 011-22732429, 22732426, 8544987304

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DP/863/ED/21
Tar 885 21 fT, LS (PRE) EXAM Ta 212 fist a0 Rarer, 2024
Tae Ale Gea arent fe Poama 1 Ee, oer eT apie eats tee (ites) sae aes ah (sere) weer S aaehing Seer ey a — Te ea ee eee lay eer TW St ST (A,B, CAO) at am eieot ah oer aa Gen MPT 7 ATS htipclrew.ukgse.gewin Ty aE a er Waren ae fqn ae | ant fait araeel a ot ahi a fied ae Tp Rarsy ot mg anfar fot ae ara sh Sse Online Anewor Key Objectlon dg FS ml ite of are amet amieray SR ERR Ron Pei aap ata a1 Reaves, zoza Zi O68 omreth, aoae Gee ee zag wel ee een gal ae gest Bh aaret GeT Sh ae ae PeiRar pee To sate wT PIT EAT | are a Saas 02 ee TA Onliee Answer Kay Objection afte ¢-4a, apr ae aay feet caer 3 fine seit i afar inf ah Stee tite arsine cra ael—ued arsed a ater Teil ape PO GOLD eT ETT ere fee ory ae een eae ere waeqer arate honk Reronfl Rear emp) ert geil at aren amily wel ed ot 4S ae a eerie eee Pem—-P were fig fia aT Lek 2d ET, LS. (PRE] EA eT 2 Pana: a0 PAR, 2028 TT Se ae ae |
TH=g Tas
GOVERNMENT OF CHHATTISGARH, WATER RESOURCES DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF THE SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER WATER RESOURCES & GROUND WATER SURVEY CIRCLE SIHAVA BHAWAN CAMPUS, CIVIL LINES, RAIPUR (C.G.) e-PROCUREMENT TENDER NOTICE
eProcurement Portal: https://eproc.cgstate.gov.in ( 2nd Call ) System Tender No.: 89604/NIT No.: 10/SAC/2021-22,  Mahasamund, Dated : 29.12.2021
Online Tenders are Invited for the following works up to 17.01.2022 at 17:30 Hour (IST):-
Name of Work : REMODELING & C.C. LINING OF MAIN CANAL & 01 NO. MINOR CANAL, REPAIR OF 11 NO.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: EXISTING CANAL STRUCTURES, CONSTRUCTION OF 01 NO. NEW CANAL STRUCTURE AND FIXING OF 22 NO.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: COLABA OUTLETS OF BINDRAWAN TANK SCHEME IN BAGBAHARA BLOCK OF MAHASAMUND DISTRICT.
Probable Amount of Contract : Rs. 136.46 Lakhs
The details can be viewed and downloaded online directly from the Government of Chhattisgarh Integrated e-Procurement Portal (https://eproc.cgstate.gov.in) from Date 05.01.2022, at 17:31 Hours (IST) onwards.
NOTE :- All eligible/interested contractors/bidders are mandated to get enrolled on the Integrated e-procurement portal (https://eproc.cgstate.gov.in) and get approval on specific vendor class from PWD under Centralized Contractor/Supplier Registration in order to download the tender documents and participate in the subsequent bidding process.
ahr
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER Water Resources Division, Mahasamund for, Superintending Engineer, Water Resources & Ground Water Survey Circle, Raipur (C.G)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: (GOVT 6 POLITICS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: NORTHERN RAILWAY E-TENDER NOTICE
The Sr. Divisional Engineer-lll, Northern Railway, Delhi Division invites E-Tender for the following work.
=
Name of Work Supplying and installation of automated water level gauge at (Yamuna Bridge No. 31) in the
section of SSE/W/NDLS under ADEN/NDLS.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: LS)
Approx Cost of Work Rs. 9,29,000/- (Rupees Nine Lakh Twenty Nine
Thousand Only)
Earnest Money to be Deposited
Rs. 0/-
wo
b
Rs. 0.00/- 21.01.2022 @ 15:00 Hrs.
Cost of Tender Document
5|Date & Time of Submission of Tender bid and Opening of Tender.
* The tenderer/s must be registered on the Indian Railway E-Procurement

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: SERVING CUSTOMERS WITH A SMILE
6|Website Particulars where complete details of tender document can be seen.
www.ireps.gov.in
system (IREPS) site i.e. www.ireps.gov.in for participating in the e-tender system. « For all terms and conditions please refer tender document. + No manual offers are acceptable. + Cost of tender document and Earnest money will be acceptable through net banking or payment gateway only.
Notice No. No.128-W/280/e Tender Notice/NIT/29/2021-22/W-3 Dated :- 30.12.2021
3084/2021
ZR. GOVERNMENT OF ODISHA dy OFFICE OF THE CHIEF CONSTRUCTION ENGINEER, bn JEYPORE (R&B) CIRCLE, JEYPORE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: B-919 INVITATIONS FOR BIDS (IFB)
Bid Identification No. C.C.E.J.C (R&B)-21/2021-22 No. 5761 Date. 24.12.2021 . Nature of the work : BUILDING WORK.
. Total No. of Works : 03 (Three) Nos.
. Estimated cost : Rs. 130.39 Lakhs To 393.32 Lakhs.
. Period of completion : 06 (Six) Months to 11 (Eleven) Months as per work : Rs. 10,000/- Each.
: Bid Security Declaration (Schedule-k) : B, A, & Special Class according to work.
From 11.00 hours of 11.01.2022 to 17.00 hours of 27.01.2022
17.00 hours of 27.01.2022
. Cost of Bid Document . Bid Security (EMD) . Class of Contractor
. Date & time of availability of :
bid document in the portal
. Last date/ Time for receipt :
of bids in the Portal
Opening date of Bid
Name and address of the Officer Inviting Bid
10.
11.
: 11.00 hours of 28.01.2022 : Chief Construction Engineer
Jeypore (R&B) Circle, Jeypore Further details can be seen from the e-procurement portal https://tendersodisha.gov.in. Any addendum/ — corrigendum/ cancellation of tender can also be seen in the said website only.
Sd/- Chief Construction Engineer
Jeypore (R&B) Circle, Jeypore

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: OIPR-34108/11/0026/2122 WATCO OFFICE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, WATCO.
Ground Floor, Unnati Bhawan, H.B. Colony, Satyanagar, Bhubaneswar-751007, Odisha, India Telefax:- + 91-674-2391444 E-mail: mail@watcoodisha.in md @watcoodisha.in INVITATION FOR BID (IFB) Bid Identification No. WATCO (W) - 29/2021-22 Dtd. 22.12.2021 WATCO No. 7147 Date: 22.04.2021 Name of the work :- Conversion of intermittent Water supply of Berhampur town to 24x7 Water supply under Drink From Tap Mission”.
:- Rs 36.00 Crore (Approx.) :- 12(Twelve) Months
:- From 11.00 AM of Dt. 15.01.2022 to 5.00 PM of 30.01.2021
s

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: C-1736
Estimated cost Period of completion Date & time of availability of bid document in the portal Last date/time of receipt of bids in the portal Date & time of opening of technical bids Name and address of :- CEO, WATCO Telefax:- 0674-2391444.
the Officer Inviting Bid E-Mail: mail@watcoodisha.in md @watcoodisha.in The bidders have to participate in ONLINE bidding only.
Further details can be seen from the web site www.tenderodisha.gov.in
:- 5.00 PM of 30.01.2022.
:- 12.30 PM of 31.01.2022.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: CEO WATCO OIPR- 13083/11/0055/2122
te GOVERNMENT OF TELANGANA “aa HYDERABAD METROPOLITAN el WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE BOARD 0/o Chief General Manager (Engg), Keshavapuram Circle, Hyderabad, Telangana State.
EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI) for “Third Party Quality Assurance & Quality Control Services” EOI No. 01 / HMWSSB / CGM(E) / Keshavapuram / ORR-Phase-ll-Pack-ll/ TPQA & QC / 2021-22, dt: 30-12-2021 The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) has taken up the Project work of “Providing water supply infrastructure to the extended areas of ORR Villages by laying inlet, outlet and distribution network with HDPE & DI K7 pipelines of different diameters and Construction of Service Reservoirs of various capacities (GLSRs/ ELSRs of varied staging) in Rajendranagar, Shamirpet, Medchal, Qutubullapur, Patancheru, R.C.Puram & Bollaram Mandals -Package-ll” under Keshavapuram Circle for Adequate Drinking Water Supply for ULBs and Grampanchayats falling within ORR and Outside GHMC under jurisdiction of HMWSSB.
In order to have quality assurance and quality control for the proposed work HMWSSB proposes to engage the agencies. In view of above, the Expressions of Interest (EOI) is hereby invited from the agencies having experience in the job of conducting Third Party Quality Assurance and Quality Control for the major water supply schemes. They are required to furnish their credential indicating that they are qualified to perform the said services with client certificates on similar nature of work experience, organization details with their technical expertise of personnel & their qualifications, projects etc capable to undertake such assignments.
The interested agencies consultants may submit their Expression of Interest with the above details to the Chief General Manager(E), Keshavapuram Circle, HMWSSB, 4th Floor, Administrative Building, Eastern Block, Khairatabad, Hyderabad-500 004 on or before 07Jan’ 2022.
Sd/- Chief General Manager (Engg), Keshavapuram Circle, Hyderabad, Telangana State.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: E-TENDERING PRESS NOTICE
The Executive Engineer, Civil Division No. V, Irrigation and Flood Control Department, Govt. of NCT of Delhi, Near paryavaran Complex, Saiduilaiab New Delhi 110030 invites on behalf of President of India, on line percentage rate tender from approved and eligible contractors registered with Irrigation and Flood Control Department up
to 3:00 P.M on dates mentioned as below.
1. NIT 64/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213589_1 (Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 2711 Non Plan. N.O.W.:- Construction of road on left bank and right bank of Ali drain from RD 1600 Mt. to RD 2250 Mt. in Badarpur Constituency AC-53. E.C. Rs. 74,48,554/- Earnest Money Rs 1,48,971/- Period of Completion 60 Days. (Date of
opening 05.01.2022).
. NIT 65/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213629_1 (Percentage rate). H.O,A:- 2711 Non Plan. N.O.W.:- Demolishing and reconstruction of dilapidated boundary wall between RD 250 metre to RD 400 metre and raising of boundary wall between RD 400 to RD 665 with fixing of iron grill at Asola Nallah in South Delhi.
E.C. Rs. 92,37,125/- Earnest Money Rs 1,84,743/- Period of Completion 300 Days. (Date of opening 06.01.2022).
. NIT 66/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213626_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 2711 Non Plan, N.O.W.:- Demolishing and reconstruction of dilapidated boundary wall between RD 00 metre to RD 250 metre with fixing of iron Grill at Asolanallah in South Delhi E.C. Rs. 92,45,693/- Earnest Money Rs 1,84,914/- Period
of Completion 300 Days. (Date of opening 06.01,2022).
. NIT 68/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213631_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 4515 Plan (DVDB). N.O.W.:- Demolishing and reconstruction of chaupal at village Gadaipur in Chhattarpur AC-46. E.C. Rs. 37,91,459/- Earnest Money Rs 75,829/- Period of Completion 270 Days. (Date of opening 06.01.2022).
. NIT 69/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213622_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 4217 Unauthorized colonies. N.O.W.:- Construction of road and laying of 150 mm dia RCC pipe in Old village Jasola Extension near LIG flats (DDA) (Regn No. 28) in Okhla Constituency. E.C. Rs. 43,08,194/- Earnest Money Rs 86,164/- Period
of Completion 150 Days. (Date of opening 06.01.2022).
. NIT 70/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213576_1 (Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 2711 Non Plan. N.O.W.:- Running charges of department Pump set 15 HP for the period of four month at Indra Enclave Neb sarai in mehrauli Block. E.C. Rs. 10,82,043/- Earnest Money Rs. 21,641/- Period of Completion 122 Days. (Date of
opening 04.01.2022).
. NIT 7112021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213583_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 2711 Non Plan. N.O.W.:- Running charges of department Pump set 32 HP for the period of four month at G-Block Aya Nagar in mehrauli Block. E.C. Rs. 11,42,597/- Earnest Money Rs. 22,852/- Period of Completion 122 Days. (Date of opening
04.01.2022).
. NIT 72/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213598_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 4217 Plan Unauthorized Colonies. N.O.W.:- Construction of road and drain in Sudarshan park Meethapur extension in Badarpur Constituency AC-53 (regn. No. 327). E.C.Rs. 50,68,475/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,01,370/- Period of Completion 180
Days. (Date of opening 05.01,2022).
9. NIT 73/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213647_1 (Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 4515 DVDB. N.O.W.:- Demolishing and reconstruction of Old Chaupal at Khasra no. 558 Lal Dora Maidangarhi in Mehrauli block. E.C. Rs. 80,26,347/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,60,527/- Period of Completion 540 Days. (Date of opening 06.01.2022).
10.NIT 74/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213650_1 (Percentage rate). H.O.A:- MLALAD. N.O.W..:- Providing and fixing Victorian benches at different parks in
the Mehrauli Assembly Constituency. E.C. Rs. 80,42,800/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,60,856/- Period of Completion 90 Days. (Date of opening 06.01 ,2022).
11. NIT 75/2021 -22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021 _IFC_213599_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- MLALAD. N.O.W.:- Providing and placing dustbins at different locations of the
Mehrauli assembly Constituency (AC-45). E.C. Rs. 65,90,375/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,31,808/- Period of Completion 60 Days. (Date o' 12.NIT 76/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213602_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 2711 Non Plan. N.O.W.:- Construction of Ou
opening 05.01.2022).
all drain for drain out the storm
water of Ekta Vihar and Lakhpat Colony in Badarpur Constituency. E.C.Rs. 88,57,030/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,77,141/- Period of Completion 120 Days. (Date of opening
05.01.2022).
13.NIT 77/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213603_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 2711 Non Plan. N.O.W.:- Construction of Ou Sai nagar in Badarpur Constituency. E.C.Rs. 71,54,692/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,43,094/- Period of Completion 120 Days. (Date of opening 05.01.2022),
water o!
all Drain for drain out the storm
14. NIT 78/2021-22/EE/CD-V/Acs/(ID No. 2021_IFC_213606_1 ( Percentage rate). H.O.A:- 4515 DVDB. N.O.W..:- Filling of Good earth and construction of one room hall in Chandan Holla Kabristan in Mehrauli Block. E.C.Rs. 55,58,987/- Earnest Money Rs. 1,11,180/- Period of Completion 180 Days. (Date of opening 05.01.2022).
Note:- 1).
The enlistment of the contractors should be valid on the last date of opening of tenders. In case the last date of opening of tender is extended the enlistment
of contractor should be valid on the original date of opening of tenders. 2) Earnest Money in physical form i,e. FDR/Banker cheque /Demand Draft of schedule bank issued in favour of EE CD V I&FC Deptt. should be deposited in the office of EE CD V I&FC Deptt. Govt. of NCT of Delhi Saidulajab near Paryavaran complex New Delhi 30 (L1 bidder) after opening of tender. 3). Details of above mentioned work can be seen and downloaded from website htts://govtprocurement.delhi.gov.in
4). Tender submitted through e-procurement portal shall be accepted only. 5) Corrigendum, if any will be published on e-procuremen

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: DIP/SHABDARTH/0530/21-22
web side only.
Sd/- EXECUTIVE ENGINEER CD.V.
1987-batch IAS topper Amir Subhani to be new Chief Secretary of Bihar
Patna: Amir Subhani, the 1987- April 2024. Considered close to batchIAS topper, wasonThursday Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, he appointed the new Chief earlier worked in key bureau- Secretary of Bihar, according toa _cratic positions, including as the government notification. state’s Home Secretary.
Subhani, who was the state’s Subhani will take charge on development commissioner be- January 1, replacing Tripurari fore his elevation, will retirein Sharan. PTI

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: NORTHERN RAILWAY TENDER NOTICE
Sr.DEN/II/MB acting for and on behalf of The President of India invites E-Tenders against Tender No. 169-DRM-MB-21-22 closing date 25.01.2022 16:00 hrs. Name of work - General annual repair works at service building and staff quarters from Sitapur City - Roza (Excluding) including wood and road work for 2021- 22 in the section of SSE/W/SPC under ADEN/HRI-II. Tender closing date/time - 25.01.2022 16:00, Cost of work Rs. 7499997.89, Earnest Money Rs.- NIL, Tender Cost Rs.- NIL, Bidding start date 11.01.2022 and Period of Completion 12 Months. Bidders will be able to submit their original/revised bids upto closing date and time only. Manual offers are not allowed against this tender, and any such manual offer received shall be ignored. For detail information please log into www.ireps.gov.in. Contractors are allowed to make payments against this tender towards tender document cost and earnest money only through online payment modes available on IREPS portal like net banking, debit card, credit card etc.
Manual payments through Demand draft, Banker's cheque, Deposit receipts, FDR etc. are not allowed.
Tender No. 169-DRM-MB-21-22 Dated - 30.12.2021 3093/2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: UJVN LIMITED
H.0O.: "UJJWAL", Maharani Bagh, GMS Road, Dehradun-248006 Phone: 0135- 2763508, 2763808, Fax: 0135- 2763507 CIN No. U40101UR2001SGC025866, Website: www.ujvni.com Short term tender notice fei: 29.12.2021 NIT No. 26 & 27/EE(M&G)/MPH/2021-22 Office of the Executive Engineer, (M&G) Mohammadpur Power House, Gurukul Narsan -Hardwar invites sealed tenders from experienced firms for following works/supply for Mohammadpur Power House:- Tender No -26&27/EE(M&G)/MPH/2021-22 Name ofwork- 1— SITC of Grid availability status system, testing & fault rectification of 66 kV Power System 2— Work of refurbishment of protection System of 8MVAT/F at Mohammadpur Power House 2- Estimated Cost-— Rs.9,46,450.00 (GST Extra) Rs.14,74,444.00 (GST Extra) respectively.
3- Date of availability of Tender document - 29-12-2021 from 11:00 hrs on website 4- Date of Receipt of the tender-12-01-2022 upto 16: 00 hrs For all details, bidders are advised to visit our website www.ujvnl.com Executive Engineer (M&G)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: “AVOID WASTEFUL USE OF ELECTRICITY”
Ua . 1054,
&
0-1595
Cotton price soars to Rs 10,000/quintal in Gujarat mandis

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: GOPAL KATESHIYA RAJKOT, DECEMBER 30
PRICES OF kapas (seed-cotton) touched a historic high of Rs 10,555 per quintal in the yard of agricultural produce market com- mittee (APMC) mandi in Jamnagar Thursday. Traders say the rates of the natural fiber are going through the roof this season due to a drastic fall in production.
The price of kapas in Jamnagar mandi remained in the range of Rs 7500 toRs 10,555 Thursday with modal price (the price at which the majority of a commodity gets sold ona given day) being Rs 10,000. “This is a historic price and the highest in the entire state. Last year, the highest bid was Rs 6,825 but this year, farmers are realising an av- erage Rs 3,000 higher price,” said Hitesh Patel, secretary of Jamnagar APMC.
In Rajkot APMC, among the largest cotton markets of the state, the price touched Rs 10,050 -- the highest so far -- on Thursday. In Gondal APMC too, the highest price was Rs 10,000.
The lowest in both these APMCs was Rs 7,511 and Rs 5,000 re- spectively with the modal price being around Rs 9,500.
The price of around Rs 9,500 is almost double as compared to

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: GOVERNMENT OF ODISHA OFFICE OF THE CHIEF CONSTRUCTION ENGINEER RURAL WORKS CIRCLE, KENDRAPARA-JAJPUR
AT/PO- NAYABAZAR, CUTTACK-753004, Tel No. 0671-2444488, Email- serw_kpd@yahoo.com
No. Tender Online RCK - 31/21
e-Procurement NOTICE
. Name of the work
Letter No.- 3398//
Date:- 29/12/2021
: Tender for the road projects of Constituency wise R.D Roads developed under
MMSY Scheme during 2021-22 in the Dist. of Kendrapara-Jajpur
. Class of Contractor . Time for Completion . Detail Projects
. Other Details
: As per Annexure attached
: As specified in the column 5 of the Annexure.
: As specified in the column 6 of the Annexure.
Bid Identification
Procurement Officer Availability of
Tender on-line for bidding
From To
Last Date & Time of seeking No. tender clarification
Date & Time of opening of tender
Technical Bid | Financial Bid
1 2 3 4 5
6 7
Chief Construction Engineer, Rural Works Circle, Kendrapara- Jajpur
31.12.2021 at] 15.01.2022 to 11.00 AM 5.00 PM
Tender Online RCK - 31/21
15.01.2022 up to 1.00 PM
17.01.2022 at| _, Will be
Intimated 11.00 AM Later
Further details can be seen from the website www.tendersorrisa.gov.in
Chief Construction Engineer,
Rural Works Circle, Kendrapara-Jajpur
Fo Yo Wet Sra ARUN] fo g-fafacet Wat ao 75- sateRA/AMo /2021-22 ¥-eVST AR We Bt daa eg a ait A a1 7 W-2 sifakad frat & saqaN amafaa fra ort & | faferer ora eA / aie ait ar feat aT WA 07.02.2022 14:00 at Ua 08.02.2022 14.00 at F| put: 1, Hl HI ATA: 132 chodfo Sh FSMI-02 YTFHK W 650
as per NIT.
For
detailed NIT & Tender https://eproc.punjab.gov.in from 29.12.2021 from 17.00 Hrs. onwards.
NOTE: Corrigendum & addendum, if any will be published online at

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: OIPR-25129/11/0032/2122
https://eproc.punjab.gov.in.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: GHTP-67/21
last year’s average price of around Rs 5,500.
Cotton traders ascribed the phenomenon to a drastic drop in cotton yields coinciding with a negligible carry-forward stock of the previous year in India and an empty pipeline of the domestic cotton ginning and spinning in- dustry. “The cotton arrivals in APMCs are almost half as com- pared to normal years even as demand from the domestic gin- ning and spinning industry is high as its raw material pipeline was empty due to almost nil carry-forward stock of the pre- vious year. December-January marks the peak of cotton mar- keting season and normally, Jamnagar APMC records arrivals of around 2,000 quintals daily.
But it is hardly around 1,000 quintals these days,” said Mahipatsinh Jadeja of Rajeshwari Trading, a cotton trading firm in Jamnagar APMC.
Similar is the case in Rajkot and Gondal. Rajkot APMC recorded arrivals of 3,450 quintals Thursday. On December 31 last year, cotton arrivals in Rajkot APMC were recorded at 5,400 quintals but the price was in the range of Rs 4,860 to Rs 5,705. In Gondal, arrivals on Thursday were 1,951 quintals, which secretary Tarun Panchani said, was almost half of previous years.
Ahead of elections, North Goa Collector issues security orders
Panaji: The District Collector of NorthGoaon Thursday issued three orders under Section 144 of the CrPC which banned possession of any types of fire arms or lethal weapons, asked owners of premises to verify the antecedents of their tenants and directed all cyber cafe owners to prohibit use of the space by un- known people and install CCTV cameras at their entrance. The or- der issued by district collector Ajit Roy stated, “The EC may announce the schedule for ensuing election shortly, and the code of conduct will come into force on announcement of the said schedule.” ENS
specification please
us let fae Punjab State Power Corporation Limited
Regd Office: PSEB Head Office, The Mall, (Patiala) CIN: U40109PB2010SGC033813, Website: www.pspcl.in (Contact Number: 96461-20640) Tender Enquiry No. 1343/0&M/PC-2208 Chief Engineer/O&M (P&P Cell-l), GHTP, Lehra Mohabbat, invites E- tender for the Procurement of Copper Flexible Trailing Cable. Quantity
Dated: 29.12.2021
refer to
11943/Pb
E-Tendering Notice U.P POWER TRANSMISSION CORPORATION LTD.
E-Tender Notice 12/ECTD/Agra/2021-22
E-Tender in two parts, Part-I & Part-II valid for four months are invited
for the work mentioned as under:-
(a¥ 2022-23)| walH-3, HM aI ATA-220 Halo Shs Heil Brass ict a aa Hal HT Aext Aes
Tender Specifica- tion No.
Name of Work
Earnest Money
Period of Work
Tender Cost
Date and Time of opening
Date and Time of Submission
aha HT A! (AF 2022-23),
12 Annual M&R at 220 KV S/S] 12 Sikandra (Agra)
2,000.00 Mon
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
patH-4, De Pl AM-220 todto
Annual M&R at Foundry Nagar (Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1600.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Cantt
Annual M&R ai Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1100.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Annual M&R ai Bichpuri (Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Bodla
Annual M&R ai Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Annual M&R at 400 KV S/S] 12 Agra-South (Agra)
1000.00 Mon
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Annual M&R at Gwalior Road Baad (Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Annual M&R ai Bhimnagri (Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
HA BI 132 hodto was GMT areata pret & Fraser pet car arisep
Annual M&R ai Kirawali (Agra
132 KV S/S] 12 Mon
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: ARAN HA (AF 2022-23), HATH-7,
Annual M&R at Shamsabad (Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Month
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Tt Tl AMA-132 qhodto wah,
Annual M&R at Dayalbagh (Agra)
132 KV S/S] 12 Month
1000.00
500+90+250 = 840
01.02.2022 / 12:00
02.02.20221 / 12:00
Tate aaa aprettt a freaot aay aR 220 Hodlo wah, TIT BATA Ha F Fata Har cr fap AAA HLA | (AF 2022-23), HAtH- 8, BM wl A: 220 hodlo suych=x, AER, 132 Hodlo Byehsx, Asiterare
Limited Lucknow.
ation stqxermr crt (ay 2022-23), patH-9, He Dl AM-132 hodfo SUS, TAT Sareea pret F FreaaeT ma Hl aie sae art | (ae 2022-23) fafaer waa g-wrede aaase http://etender.up.nic.in
without
The tender document against this bid specification can be downloaded from e-procurement website http://etender.up.nic.in. Tenders can only be submitted on e-procurement website http://etender.up.nic.in. up
reason _ thereof.
schedule date & time as above. The bidder must go through properly pre- qualifying conditions and ensure that all related papers are uploaded. For participating in bids through the e-bidding system, it is necessary for the bidders to get themselves registered with UP Electronics Corporation
Undersigned reserves the right to amend or withdraw any of the terms and conditions contain in the tender document or accept or reiect any bid assigning any http://etender.up.nic.in or www.upptcl.org regularly for any correction/ modification/ anendments/ extension till the date of submission of tender Cost of Tender and Earnest Money Submitted in the Account of Executive Engineer, Electricity Civil Transmission Division, 220 KV S/S Sikandra
Please visit website
(Agra) with A/C No- 30065294923, IFSC Code- SBIN0005717 Payble at S.B.| Foundry Nagar (Agra) U.P Pin Code- 282006. through NEFT/RTGS.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: EXECUTIVE ENGINEER, ELECTRICITY CIVIL TRANSMISSION DIVISION

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: AGRA
UPPTC WEB SITE:- www.upptcl.org

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: E-PROCUREMENT WEBSITE:
http://etender.up.nic.in

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: “SAVE ENERGY IN THE INTEREST OF NATION”
wath 1244 fa. ST. O. ta./ art feat 30/12/2021
New Delhi
Sd/-

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: EXECUTIVE ENGINEER

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: EXPRESS NETWORK
Ludhiana blast probe: RDX packed in plastic container

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: DEEPTIMAN TIWARY NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
A FORENSIC examination of last week's blast inside a washroom at the Ludhiana district court complex has revealed the use of around 1.5 kg of RDX packed ina plastic container along with a sig- nificant amount of shrapnel, in- dicating the intention to cause significant damage and loss of life.
The Indian Express had re- ported on December 25 that the examination had initially been hampered as a water pipe had burst in the blast, washing away vital clues. “Experts worked on the spot over the next couple of
Gujarat: 55 AAP workers granted bail, set to be released today

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE AHMEDABAD, DECEMBER 30
AS MANY as 55 AAP workers who were jailed at the Sabarmati Central Prison in Ahmedabad for the past 11 days for protesting outside the BJP headquarters in Gandhinagar on December 20, will be released on Friday morning after a Gandhinagar court granted them conditional bail on Thursday.
According to the bail order, the 55 AAP men will not be al- lowed to enter the Gandhinagar city and their passports will be seized. The jailed workers in- clude AAP Gujarat president Gopal Italia, Youth Wing general secretary Nikhil Savani, senior leaders Isudan_ Gadhvi, Hasmukh Patel, Shiv Kumar and Pravin Ram, along with 10 col- lege students aged between 18 and 22 years, who are part of AAP's student and youth wings.
"All 55 leaders of the AAP have been granted bail by a ses- sions court in Gandhinagar on the solvency of Rs 50,000 and conditions that they cannot en- ter the Gandhinagar city area and cannot leave the country.
The bail proceedings went on till late Thursday... They will be re- leased from Sabarmati Central Prison on Friday around 10 am," said Pranav Thakkar, legal coun- sel, AAP Gujarat.
Police arrested 93 AAP work- ers for allegedly holding a protest outside Shri Kamalam in Koba of Gandhinagar against the leak of question paper of Gujarat Subordinate Service Selection Board examination for recruit- ment of head clerks. Among the arrested were 28 members of the AAP women’s wing, 10 bus driv- ers and conductors, and 55 male AAPleaders. While women mem- bers were given bail last week, the 10 drivers and conductors were also given bail in the past two days.
days and managed to pick up some traces that turned out to be RDX,” sources said.
“Given that it is a military grade explosive, the evidence of it having come from across the border and the incident’s links with pro-Khalistan groups sup- ported by Pakistan have become stronger,” a senior officer in the security establishment said.
The new findings in the case come at a time when security agencies have flagged renewed activity of pro-Khalistan terror groups in Punjab, with regular drops of arms, ammunition, ex- plosives and IEDs being detected from across the border using drones. In the recent past alone,
At the blast site in Ludhiana district court. Express file
43 drone sightings have been re- ported by police close to the bor- der near Amritsar and Pathankot.
According to Punjab Police, the
lone casualty in last Thursday's blast, which injured six others, was the man carrying the explo- sives. He has been identified as Gagandeep Singh (30), a former policeman who was sacked two years ago after being booked in a case of drug smuggling.
Gagandeep's charred body was identified based on a tattoo and a mobile phone recovered from the spot. “While the phone was completely destroyed, NSG (National Security Guard) per- sonnel were able to recover the memory card and dongle. During forensic examination, it gave vi- tal clues not only about the iden- tity of the perpetrator but also his links,” the senior officer said.
According to _ police, Gagandeep was dismissed from service after his arrest in August 2019 and spent two years in jail before being bailed out in September this year. A Punjab Police officer said the “evidence suggests he was not an expert in assembling bombs and commit- ted some mistake, setting off the blast (on the second floor)”.
On Saturday, Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya had said that Gagandeep came in contact with pro-Khalistan ele- ments during his time in jail, and there were indications that the blast was linked to Khalistani and narco-terror elements oper- ating from Pakistan.
Bandra Wonderland in Mumbai was vacated on Thursday evening in line with new Covid restrictions. Amit Chakravarty
Mumbai’s Covid-19 positivity rate shoots up to 7.67%

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: RUPSA CHAKRABORTY MUMBAI, DECEMBER 30
AMID APPREHENSIONS of a pos- sible third wave of Covid-19, the daily positivity rate in Mumbai skyrocketed to 7.67 per cent on Thursday. This has raised an alarm among publichealth experts, who are anticipating a much higher daily countthan the second wave.
Out of the 46,337 tests con- ducted in Mumbai on Thursday, 3,555 were positive for Covid-19, recording a 7.92 per cent Test Percentage Rate (TPR, the num- ber of positive cases detected compared to the total tests con- ducted). This is a rise of more than 3 percentage points in TPR over Wednesday, when 2,510 Covid-19 cases were detected out of the 51,843 tests con- ducted, recording a daily positiv- ity rate of 4.84 per cent.
The surge in cases also pushed up the state’s Covid-19 tally.
Mumbai contributed 66 per cent of the state’s total 5,368 Covid-19 cases reported on December 30.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: MALEGAON BLAST WITNESS CLAIM
UPA forced witness to change case angle: BJP leader named earlier

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
WITH A witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case claiming that he was pressured by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) to name five RSS members, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a BJP leader who is among those named by the wit- ness on Thursday alleged that the Congress-led UPA govern- ment had forced the witness to “change the angle of the case” as part of its appeasement strategy.
According to Sunil Deodhar, BJP national secretary and for- mer RSS Pracharak, the pressure on the witness was part of a “larger conspiracy to coin the word Hindu terror.”
“The witness has given a statement that he was under pressure and torture to name five Hindu leaders — Yogi Adityanath, Indresh Kumar, Aseemanand, Sunil Deodhar and Kakkaji. I don't know who this Kakkaji is,” Deodhar told The Indian Express.
According to him, after the Malegaon blast there was a ‘chin- tan baithak’ (brainstorming ses- sion) of the NCP in Alibaug, where party chief Sharad Pawar, he
BJP National Secretary Sunil Deodhar
maintained, had said that Muslims could not dosucha blast on a Friday, which the commu- nity holds as a pious day. “This shows there must be a different angle to this case,” Deodhar said.
“At that time they (UPA) were in power. He had probably insti- gated a new angle... | was regu- larly exposing the then (Congress-led) Maharashtra gov- ernment and their appeasement towards terrorist activities and protecting the terrorists.
“There was one SMS...that all Muslims are not terrorist but all terrorists are Muslims. This was because of the serial blasts across.
the country and those responsi- ble were all Muslims. So, there was a conspiracy to make Hindus also part of it. There was a larger conspiracy to coin the word ‘Hindu terror’...”
Deodhar said the witness’ statement has endorsed that the term Hindu terror was wrong and the then government had been misusing the investigative agen- cies against Opposition party.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: TWO DAYS AFTERHIS DEATH, REPORT SAYS MAN HAD OMICRON
Pune: Two days after a52-year- old man died at Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, a report by the National Institute of Virology on Thursday said he was infected with Covid- 19’s Omicron variant. However, health officials said the man, who had travelled to Nigeria, died ofaheartattack. ENS
Experts said the daily cases are expected to increase more than the second wave. “Considering thatthe cases are doubling within 24 hours, it is expected that the cases would increase more than the second wave. However, hospi- talization would be less alongwith fatality. So, itis not the time to keep our guard down,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force.
Covid cases double in 24 hours, Bengal halts flights from UK

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: SWEETY KUMARI KOLKATA, DECEMBER 30
THE NUMBER of new Covid-19 cases in West Bengal doubled to 2,128 in the last 24 hours with Kolkata alone reporting 1,090 new cases on Thursday.
The test-positivity rate also saw a huge jump. The weekly test- positivity rate for Kolkata rose to 12.5 per cent, according to the data shared by the state Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. West Bengal’s test- positivity rate has increased to 5.47 per cent.
Amid the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the state in the wake of the emergence of the Omicron variant of the virus, the West Bengal govern- ment on Thursday decided to suspend all direct flights from the United Kingdom from January 3.
“...In view of the rising num- ber of Omicron cases globally as Well within the country, the state government has decided
to temporarily suspend all di- rect flights from the United Kingdom to Kolkata with effect from January 3,” read a govern- ment notification.
Flights from “at risk” coun- tries will not be allowed to land in the state, the notification said. “Further, with effect from January 3, all passengers arriv- ing from other 'non-at-risk' countries via international flights to West Bengal will have to undergo a mandatory Covid- 19 test on arrival,” it added.
“The airlines will randomly select 10 per cent of the passen- gers for an RT-PCR test and the remaining 90 per cent shall un- dergo a rapid antigen test (RAT) on arrival at the airport. Those found positive in the rapid anti- gen test will further have to un- dergo an RT-PCR test. Further, all passengers have to manda- torily pre-book the test before boarding to reduce waiting time on arrival, which the air- lines must ensure before allow- ing boarding,” said an official of the health department.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: NAGALAND
Centre extends AFSPA for six more months

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.67]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
EVEN AS it set up a committee to look into the demand for re- moval of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) from Nagaland, the Centre on Thursday extended the impo- sition of the law in the state by six months.
In a gazette notification is- sued on Thursday, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said: “Whereas the cen- tral government is of the opin- ion that the area comprising the whole of the state of Nagaland is in such a disturbed and dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 (No.28 of 1958) the central gov- ernment hereby declares that whole of the state of Nagaland to be 'disturbed area’ for a pe- riod of six months with effect from 30th December, 2021, for the purpose of the said Act.”
The imposition of AFSPA in Nagaland was due to expire on December 31, as it was last ex- tended in the state on June 30.
AFSPA can be imposed in an area or a region for six months at a time, after which it has to be extended if the government deems it necessary.
On December 26, the Centre set up a high-level committee chaired by a Secretary-level of- ficer to examine the possibility of withdrawing AFSPA in Nagaland. The committee is set to submit its report within 45 days.
The committee was set up following protests over the botched up operation in Mon district of Nagaland on December 4, in which six coal miners were killed. After the in- cident, the Nagaland Assembly passed a resolution for repeal of AFSPA.
The committee is headed by Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India Vivek Joshi, and includes Additional Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Piyush Goyal, as well as the Chief Secretary and Director General of Police, Nagaland, and the DGP, Assam Rifles, as members.
AFSPA is imposed or lifted from a region by the Centre fol- lowing due consultation with the state government, the Armed forces and the central agencies.
In March 2018, the MHA had ordered the removal of AFSPA from Meghalaya. In Arunachal Pradesh, it was re- moved from several police sta- tion areas in 2018- 2019, and only three districts and four po- lice station areas that border Assam are currently under AFSPA in the state.
State parties, tribal groups slam move

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.61]: TORAAGARWALA GUWAHATI, DECEMBER 30
THECENTRE’S move toextend the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA)in Nagaland by six months on Thursday elicited strong reac- tions from tribal groups and polit- ical parties in the state.
The Naga People’s Front (NPF), which is part of the all-party United Democratic Alliance gov- ernment in Nagaland, said it was “aghast and affronted”, especially because the extension came days after the December 23 meeting, which was chaired by Union Home Minister Shah.
In the meeting, it was de- cided that the Centre would in- stitute a high-level committee to examine the possibility of with- drawing AFSPA from Nagaland.
A senior leader in the Nagaland government told The Indian Express the reaction from legislators across the board was “explosive”.
The Naga Hoho, the state’s apex tribal body, said it was “ex- tremely shocked” by the attitude of the Centre for “ignoring the voice of the Naga people”.
The Naga Student Federation (NSF), the state’s apex student body, said they would protest the notification through a series of democratic agitations.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: KERALA: 19-YEAR-OLD STABBED TO DEATH AT FRIEND’S HOUSE
Family: Pre-planned murder, he got call from friend’s mother

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: SHAJU PHILIP THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, DECEMBER 30
A DAY after a 19-year-old man was stabbed to death at his friend’s house in Thiruvananthapuram, his fam- ily on Thursday alleged that he had gone to the friend's house after getting a call from her mother.
Aneesh George was stabbed to death by his friend’s father Lalan Simon, 51, around 3.15 am on Wednesday. Lalan told police that he stabbed Aneesh, mistak- ing him for a thief.
The police later arrested Lalan on charges of murder.
On Thursday, Aneesh’s mother Dolly told reporters that her son went to Lalan’s house af- ter he got a call. “When we ex-
Govt finalising system to extend ration to all homeless people, says Food Secy

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: HARIKISHAN SHARMA NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
THE GOVERNMENT is in the process of finalising a system to provide ration to all homeless people who do not have ration cards, Union Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said Thursday.
“That process is on and the development of the system is in final stages and then it will be put to trial...” he said at a press conference when asked about the plan to introduce a system to provide ration to the people who don’t have ration cards.
“The whole system is basi- cally to capture all homeless,
shelter less, destitute who might not have ration cards but state governments have not either is- sued them the ration cards for reasons of lack of identity or lack of home address. All these issues will get addressed,” Pandey said.
S Jagannathan, Joint Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution, said there are about 1.6 crore people across the nation who are yet to be identified as per the coverage ratio of the states under the National Food Security Act, 2013.
“If you look at coverage under the NFSA, which is 81.35 crore, we find that the states have so far managed to cover something like 79.71 crore people and we keep
giving advisories to the states. In fact, a few months ago, there was still a coverage gap of 1.6 crore people across several states. They must immediately reach out and properly identify those people who are most eligible and vul- nerable within that state to come under the NFSA subject to the coverage limit,” he said.
Jagannathan said states can buy foodgrain for non-NFSA card- holders under the Centre’s Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS).
According to the Food Department, 71.44 lakh metric tonnes of wheat and rice has been sold under the OMSS till December 29, 2021 against 20.71 LMT during the same pe-

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: FORMER UGC VICE-CHAIRMAN WRITES TO CURRENT CHAIRMAN
‘Stop political interference in appointment of university leaders’

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: ALIFIYA KHAN PUNE, DECEMBER 30
AT A time when the issue of po- litical interference affecting the autonomy of academic institu- tions has taken centrestage in several states — from Kerala, West Bengal to Maharashtra —a letter has been sent by former University Grants Commission (UGC) vice-chairman and lead- ing academic Dr Bhushan
Patwardhan to the chairman and secretary of UGC, asking for uni- form regulations to be brought in for appointment of academic leaders in higher educational in- stitutions. The letter also high- lights the need for a National Model University Act.
“To maintain and enhance quality, it is crucial for any higher educational institution to min- imise external interference, espe- cially in appointments of key leadership positions such as
Former
=| UGCvice- chairman Bhushan Patwardhan
Chancellor, Pro-Chancellor, Vice- Chancellor, Pro Vice-Chancellor, etc. However, currently, there are no uniform standards or regula- tions for this purpose. As a result, education being a concurrent
riod last year. Out of the 71.44 LMT foodgrains sold under the OMSS, 11.21 lakh tonnes was lifted by the states for distribu- tion to non-NFSA beneficiaries, said Subodh Kumar, Joint Secretary, Food Department.
Sharing updates about the roll-out of One Nation One Ration Card scheme, which is aimed at enabling ration card portability, Food Department's officials said till now it has been implemented across 34 states and Union Territories covering 75 crore beneficiaries and the remaining two states - Assam and Chhattisgarh — will be cov- ered by end of the current fi- nancial year.
subject, different state govern- ments have different legisla- tions... Any external interference or influence in appointments of academic leadership positions can have a long-term detrimen- tal impact on the whole educa- tional eco-system...There is a need for a National Model University Act,” reads the letter.
A copy of the letter is with The Indian Express. Patwardhan later confirmed that he had sent the letter to the UGC.
New Delhi
Aneesh George was stabbed to death by his friend’s father, who said he mistook the 19-year-old for a thief
amined his phone after his death, we saw a call from his friend’s mother. He had gone to the friend’s house after that call.
My son’s murder was pre- planned. We came to know about our son’s death only after the police informed us early in the morning,” she said.
According to her, Lalan knew of Aneesh and his daughter’s friendship. “Both were members of the church choir. On Tuesday, Aneesh had gone shopping at a mall along with the friend and
her mother.”
Sources in the police said Lalan’s version — that he stabbed Aneesh after mistak- ing him for a thief — did not ap- pear convincing. “It looked like a pre-planned attack. He knew about the friendship between his daughter and Aneesh. It ap- peared that Lalan was expect- ing Aneesh’s visit. He was alert in those odd hours,” said a source.
“Lalan forcibly entered his daughter’s room after hearing a conversation between the friends. He might have sensed the youth’s presence in his daughter’s room. Hence, he waited with a knife with the in- tention to attack,” the source said.
After the attack, Lalan called the police to inform them about the incident.
Father-son poll duel in doubt as ex-CM Rane has a rethink

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: MAYURA JANWALKAR PANAJI, DECEMBER 30
THE ANTICIPATED father-son electoral duel in Goa’s Sattari taluka may not play out as ex- pected. While the Congress has announced the candidature of for- mer chief minister and 11-time MLA Pratapsingh Rane from Poriem, the Congress veteran may be giving his decision a rethink.
“lam _a sitting MLA, I have completed 50 years, lam 80-plus.
What more do you want? Fifty years is along time and I have my own things to do. I have done my bit. I've done it for the people and Iwishthemall the best,” Rane told The Indian Express on Thursday.
Rane’s son and BJP MLA Vishwajit Rane had earlier insisted
Speaking to The Indian Express, he said, “I have already expressed my concern in public over what is happening in many states in terms of amendments to the public universities Act or key appointments like vice- chancellors. In Karnataka, where I was on a search com- mittee for vice-chancellor re- cently, we even made an official recommendation for the same.
In Maharashtra, where the state University Act is being
that his father should now “retire gracefully”. If not, Vishwajit said he would contest the Poriem seat from BJP and defeat his father in the upcoming Assembly polls.
At a public rally Thursday in Mayem, North Goa, BJP election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis took a dig at the Congress and said Digambar Kamat, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, was the only MLA left in the Congress. He was reminded about Rane, who was declared the Congress candidate from Poriem. Fadnavis, however, said, “No, he is not going to contest. He has already announced it.”
Asked about Fadnavis’s com- ment, Rane said it was “somewhat correct”. He, however, said Vishwajit played no part in him reconsidering contesting the polls.
amended, some provisions are not only retrograde but detri- mental... Since the UGC Act pro- vides a mandate of promoting and coordinating university ed- ucation, determining and main- taining standards and framing regulations on minimum stan- dards, I have requested that they bring in uniform regulations im- mediately to the appointments of academic leaders in universi- ties, followed by a National Model University Act”.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM
10

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: S$ THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.81]: 3 LHE EDITORIAL PAGE
WORDLY WISE NO MANIS ABOVE THE LAW AND NO MAN IS BELOW IT.— THEoporeE ROOSEVELT
The IndianEXPRESS
FOUNDED By @

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: RAMNATH GOENKA

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: BECAUSE THE TRUTH

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: INVOLVES US ALL

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: DANGEROUS DELUSION
J&K Police gives itself a clean chit, threatens critics. It needs to be urgently disabused of the notion that it is above the law
HE JAMMU & KASHMIR Police appear to be under the dangerous delusion
that they are the strong arm ofa police state. How else could one explain the
bizarre threat by the Deputy Inspector General of Kashmir of penal action
against anyone expressing a critical view on the clean chit that the police have given themselves in an encounter in the Hyderpora neighbourhood of Srinagar in which two innocent civilians were killed? The inquiry itself seemed distinctly odd — a “special in- vestigation team” of police officers to inquire into the killing of two civilians by a posse of police, army and paramilitary personnel, setting aside the first principle of natural justice that no one should be a judge in their own cause. No surprise, then, that this so-called SIT should have absolved the security forces of any wrongdoing, laying the blame for one civil- ian killing on the alleged militant who was also killed in that encounter, and attributing the second to “crossfire”. Only two weapons were recovered from the site of the alleged en- counter. A media conference by the police to announce these findings at a time when the government is studying the report of a magistrate’s inquiry into the same incident gives the distinct impression that the police now consider themselves above judicial scrutiny.
Its edict that no member of the public or any local politician should challenge the findings of the SIT only confirms that the force views itself above questions or accountability.
Only in Bollywood films of a certain vintage are police officers seen to have such over- weening powers to lay down their own rules, make up their own law. Senior police offi- cers in J&K must also remember that the ranks and the constabulary are drawn from the local population. As a civilian force, the J&K police have played a stellar role in counter- ing militancy right from the 1990s. They have been able to do this primarily because peo- ple identify with the police in a way that they may not with the armed forces.
If the police continue in this vein, however, they will find their duties, including deal- ing with a militancy that does not seem to be disappearing anytime soon, becoming even more difficult in a climate where the public loss of trust in government is the biggest chal- lenge. It falls on the Union Home Ministry, which governs the Union Territory of J&K directly, to disabuse the police leadership of the notion that it is unaccountable. Or else it would in- vite the conclusion that a mid-ranking officer could not have said what he did without the support and concurrence of the Lieutenant Governor or the political bosses in Delhi.

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.7]: LAB TO PEOPLE
Despite new vaccines, India relies on first generation shots.
Government must enable manufacturers to ramp up production
MID A SURGE in Omicron-driven infections, India’s Drugs Controller General has granted emergency use approval to Molnupiravir, the world’s first Covid-19 pill. The regulator also gave an EUA to two vaccines, Hyderabad-based Biological E’s Corbevax and Covovax manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, under licence from the US vaccine company, Novavax. The pharmacological interventions are potential game-changers in the battle against the scourge that has tormented the world for two years now. If it can replicate the clinical trial results in an actual outbreak scenario, Molnupiravir can reduce hospitalisation amongst patients with severe Covid infection by 50 per cent. Corbevax and Covovax have demonstrated close to 90 per cent efficacy in clinical trials. Though these protein-based vaccines take longer to develop compared to the jabs that use the viral vector or mRNA platforms, they tutor the recipient’s immune system to react faster to a viral attack.
India now hasatleast five homegrown or indigenously manufactured vaccines. However, the country’s inoculation drive continues to rely predominantly on the two first generation vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin. In August, the drug regulator cleared the use of Zydus Cadila’s Zycov-D for children and adults. Eight months later, the DNA-based vaccine will re- portedly be used in a limited manner in seven states for adult inoculation. The inoculation programme for 15-18-year-olds, that will take off from next week, will draw on Covaxin, de- spite its Hyderabad-based manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, pleading production constraints several times during the inoculation drive for adults. Similarly, the protein-based vaccines are not amongst the initial options for the “precautionary doses” announced recently for healthcare professionals, frontline workers, and elderly citizens. According to the govern- ment’s estimates, released in June, about 300 million shots of Corbevax were to be available between September and December. Biological E’s latest statements indicate that it is aim- ing at a monthly manufacturing target of 100 million shots by February. Production must be ramped up and timelines scrupulously adhered to for the vaccine to justify its potential.
India’s experience with Covid vaccination shows that the country’s scientific bodies and its vaccine manufacturers and developers are adept at generating technological knowhow — this includes institutions other than the world-renowned SII. However, Bharat Biotech’s performance indicates that these firms struggle to produce at the scale necessary to make their presence felt in the inoculation drive. There are early and wor- rying indications that Biological E and Zydus Cadila could go the Covaxin manufacturer's way. The government should ascertain if these firms are facing production-related diffi- culties and create an enabling milieu for them.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: WHAT’S IN A NAME CHANGE?
The curious case of Urdu poet Akbar Allahabadi’s new name
ENAMINGHASA long history in India. The British once mangled native names
in imperial arrogance; nativist rulers now rename cities and kasbas, streets
and stadiums to avenge history, and inflame old wounds. For a brief while this
eek, it seemed that sarkari fiat wanted to do even more — not just rewrite
history for political ends, but even give a spanking new digital ID to the dead. On the web-
site of Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Services Commission, Urdu poet Akbar Allahabadi,
whose takhallus paid homage to the city he lived in and worked in till his death in the 1920s, had been renamed Akbar Prayagraji.
The poet would not have been amused. Allahabadi was a sharp satirist, a nation- alist despite being a servant of the British government, and he firmly believed that the destinies of Hindus and Muslims were inseparable. For him, Prayagraj and Allahabad were not on either side of a fault line. But nearly a century after his death, his city’s name, found too Mughal by the powers-that-be, was changed by official dik- tat. How could he be exempt? Indeed, Allahabadi is not the only one to suffer this in- elegance — two other poets, who had adopted similar pen-names, had found their names changed on the website.
What’s ina name change? The bureaucratic machine is not known to be a friend of po- ets or poetry or the imagination; it is the literalness of paperwork that it recognises — of- fered in triplicate, duly attested by a gazetted officer. But was Allahabadi’s renaming only about the earnest logic of bureaucratic compliance? Was it a find/replace function error?
The unthinking work of an incompetent bureaucrat? Or something more purposeful, given the current manufactured prickliness to anything Urdu or Muslim? The UP government claims that the changes were unintentional and that the website had been hacked.
Allahabadi’s name has been restored. And the curious case of Akbar Prayagraji laid to rest.
Out of line
J&K Delimitation Commission privileges ‘considerations’ over ‘criteria’, introduces imbalance in representation

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: HASEEB A DRABU
EVEN BEFORE THE Delimitation Commission headed by Justice Ranjana Desai was consti- tuted, its mandate and jurisdiction with re- spect to J&K were severely curtailed. Two of its three key decisions were pre-empted by legislative fiat. Circumventing the Delimitation Act of 2002, the Union govern- ment increased the number of seats in the legislative assembly of J&K from 107 to 114 through the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019.
The Union government also predeter- mined the population base: Clause xi of the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019 stipulated the 2011 Census as the basis for delimitation. In all other states, including the four going in for delimitation along with J&K, the 2001 census is being used in accordance with the Delimitation Act of 2002.
By doing this, the Union government has ridden roughshod over the Delimitation Commission, which has the sole prerogative to decide on both these matters. As spelt out, clause 8(b) of the Delimitation Act of 2002, mandates and empowers the Delimitation Commission to decide on the “the total num- ber of seats to be assigned to the Legislative Assembly of each State and determine on the basis of the census figures”.
Having been belittled and bypassed even before its constitution, the only job left to the Commission was to distribute the seven pre- determined additional assembly seats. After deliberating for a year-and-a-half, the Commission has proposed allocating six ad- ditional seats to Jammu and one to Kashmir.
Hence, out of the 116 assembly constituen- cies, 42 will belong to Jammu and 47 to Kashmir. The remaining 24 seats continue to be reserved for representatives from areas occupied by Pakistan.
In the last assembly, constituted in 2015 and dissolved in 2019, 37 legislators were elected from Jammu, 46 from Kashmir and four from Ladakh. With Ladakh now a sepa- rate unit, increasing the assembly con- stituencies in Jammu seeks to redress the im- balance in the political power structure within J&K. Jammu, a Hindu majority divi-
Far from seeking to end the non-existent discrimination against Jammu, the Commission has introduced an imbalance in the regional representation. The allocation proposed by the Commission gives 47 per cent of the seats to Jammu which accounts for 44 per cent of the population. The obverse of this is that 56 per cent of the population living in Kashmir will have only a 52 per cent share in the assembly.
sion, is widely perceived to have been dis- criminated against and underrepresented in the political superstructure of the Muslim majority J&K.
Facts, however, are to the contrary.
Jammu, with a 43 per cent population share had a 43 per cent share in the legislative as- sembly. While Kashmir with a 55 per cent share in the population of the state, had a53 per cent seat share. Ladakh, as part of the erstwhile state, had a two per cent share in population and four per cent in the assembly.
Far from seeking to end the non-existent discrimination against Jammu, the Commission has introduced an imbalance in the regional representation. The allocation proposed by the Commission gives 47 per cent of the seats to Jammu which accounts for 44 per cent of the population. The obverse of this is that 56 per cent of the population living in Kashmir will have only a 52 per cent share in the assembly. Including the 22 elected members of the legislative council — 11 were from the Jammu division as against nine for the Kashmir — gives Kashmir, with a population share of 55 per cent, only a 50 per cent share in the legislature.
That Jammu has been underrepresented since 1951 fits more snugly with the ideolog- ical narrative of Hindus being discriminated in the Muslim majority state than with any empirical facts. In the last assembly, out of 87 MLAs, 52 were Muslims, 33 Hindus and two Buddhists. As such, while Hindus accounted for 28 per cent of the population, they had a 38 per cent representation in the assembly.
As against this, Muslims, who are 67 per cent of the population, accounted for only 60 per cent of the legislative assembly. So much for discrimination of Jammu Hindus and domi- nation by Kashmir Muslims.
The near-ideal balance of regions and re- ligions in the J&K assembly thus far is in stark contrast to the share of minorities in the rep- resentation pie of other states. In Assam, for instance, Muslims whose share in the popu- lation is 34 per cent, constitute only 22 per cent in the state legislative Assembly. In
Kerala, the Muslim minority of 27 per cent has 21 per cent state share in the assembly.
In West Bengal, a 27 per cent population share translates into a 17 per cent seat share in the Assembly.
Instead of emulating the fair minority representation in J&K in the past, the Commission has introduced a brazen bias towards Jammu. In doing so, it has shown scant respect for the only universally ac- cepted criteria for distribution of electoral constituencies, which is population.
Inall the four previous delimitation com- missions, the basis for the creation of con- stituencies is the criteria of population. In ad- dition to which some considerations, such as topography, geographical continuity and physical features are stipulated for drawing of the constituency boundaries. By giving pri- macy to “considerations” over the “criteria”, the Commission has paved the way for the gerrymandering of constituencies especially those whose land area falls under two or more districts because of the creation of eight new districts in the state in 2006.
The actual electoral cartography could very well see pockets of Muslim concentra- tion especially in districts in Pir Panchal and Chenab belt, like Doda, Kishtwar and Rajouri, being dispersed across constituencies to di- lute their numerical strength. Lest it sounds conspiratorial, this has happened earlier. A case in point is Assam where the Muslim- majority pockets of Kajidahar, Chandpur and Nagdirgram in the Sonai constituency were amalgamated with the Dholai seat to sub- sume them numerically.
More than that, though, it is the Commission’s adventurism in playing around with the most cardinal principle of adult franchise “one person, one vote” that will have serious ramifications across the country in the future. A dangerous precedent is being set as yet another institution bites the dust.
The writer is the former finance minister of JK

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: DEMOCRACY’S WORK IN PROGRESS
Pandemic has underlined that transnational challenges demand joint efforts

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.67]: HSIN- HUANG MICHAEL HSIAO AND SANA HASHMI
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN-LED Summit for Democracy was held on December 9-10 in a virtual format. As one of the flourishing democracies, Taiwan was seen in atten- dance, represented by Audrey Tang, Taiwan’s digital minister, and Bi-khim Hsiao, Taiwan’s representative to the United States.
The summit was driven by the idea that in the face of populism, authoritarianism, and other forms of non-democratic systems looming large, it is critical to keep the “dem- ocratic” flock together.
The salience of this summit lies ina deeper understanding on the part of the Biden ad- ministration that democracy is not just a form of government, it is a goal in itself, a value that must be cherished, preserved and celebrated.
It is this vision of democracy as a norm that has seemingly rattled authoritarian countries.
That said, unlike other political systems, democracy is also a way of life — a work in progress that needs sustained attention and careful nurturing to make it more resilient.
Ideas like these are consistently echoed in Taiwan’s policy circles. For instance, dur- ing the 2021 Open Parliament Forum held in Taiwan, President Tsai Ing-wen reiterated Taiwan’s commitment to work with liberal democracies for forging an alliance to bolster collective democratic resilience and realise open governance.
These goals were highlighted during this year’s Yushan Forum, where Vice President Lai Ching-te articulated the three principal priorities that would shape Taiwan’s exter- nal cooperation in the post-pandemic world — recovering from the pandemic, restoring the economy, and safeguarding democracy.
Despite their apparent flaws and criticisms, democracies have fared much better than others in dealing with the pandemic. The world woke up to the perils of authoritarianism during the pandemic, which
has also made the world realise the virtues of a democratic system.
These goals are not only in sync with global priorities but also complement the objectives set forth in Taiwan's New Southbound Policy (NSP), launched in 2016 to bring Asia closer to Taiwan and vice-versa. The NSP is aimed to be a pivotal tool to engage like-minded democracies in the region.
Focusing on recovery (post-pandemic), revival (economy), and safeguarding (democ- racy) may help find a sustainable way in es- tablishing a development-oriented regional engagement framework. The post-pandemic world would be more invested in some of these areas — for example, health diplomacy and collaboration in the medical sector, cli- mate change mitigation, and developing sus- tainable and resilient supply chains. Taiwan is already proving its efficacy as a viable plat- form for the semiconductor industry. The US and its friends in the region, particularly India, Japan and Australia, have been proactively exploring possibilities of creating resilient supply chain mechanisms. With its techno- logical knowhow, and shared interests and concerns, Taiwan fits perfectly in this agenda.
Greater interactions between Taiwan and EU on the technology cooperation front, stimu- lated by the latter’s renewed interest in the Indo-Pacific region, makes Taiwan a desired partner of fellow democracies.
Despite their apparent flaws and criti- cisms, democracies have fared much better than others in dealing with the pandemic.
The world woke up to the perils of authori- tarianism during the pandemic, which has also made the world realise the virtues of a democratic system.
However, political resilience needs to be
complemented by economic and social re- silience. Greater consultations and coopera- tion amongst democracies are needed to re- store economic stability in the post-pandemic world. Post-pandemic re- gional economic recovery has to be tackled collectively as success hinges on sustained corrective steps of regional nature. As an in- dustrialised democracy, Taiwan could play an important role, especially since countries are trying to reduce dependence on China and establish supply chain resilience. One big lesson the Covid-19 pandemic has taught us is that nobody is safe until everybody is safe.
During the pandemic, Taiwan elucidated the resilient nature of its foreign policy. In the early days of the pandemic, Taiwan, with its exceptionally low number of cases, reached outto friends. As part of its health diplomacy, Taiwan donated surgical face masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, oxygen cylinders and concentrators to Covid-affected countries.
Taiwan, however, cannot afford to take its eyes off the challenges posed to democracies by authoritarianism. It is important for lib- eral democracies to acknowledge that they are facing similar challenges and view Taiwan as an indispensable partner. Deft diplomacy is inorder since transnational challenges de- mand joint efforts by liberal democracies.
Hsiao, chairman, Taiwan-Asia Exchange Foundation and Adjunct Research Fellow, Institute of Sociology, Academia Sinica, is
currently senior advisor to the President of Taiwan; Hashmiis a visiting fellow at Taiwan-Asia Exchange Foundation
1 | tars | ei INDIAN EXPRESS | Fe = Gau
a i hehe: ihrer t rei oh rat

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: DECEMBER 31, 1981, FORTY YEARS AGO

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: JUDGES’ CASE VERDICT
THESUPREME COURT dismissed all writ peti- tions inthe judges’ case and by a majority of 4- 3 upheld the actions of the Union government on the three main questions involved. The transfer of Chief Justice K B N Singh of the Patna High Court, the government decision not to extend the term of the additional judge of the Delhi HCSN Kumar and the Law Minister's cir- cular to chief ministers to obtain the consent of transfer anywhere of those who wanted to be permanent judges, were held valid. Justices A C Gupta, V D Tulzapurkar, Justice K S Pathak, and Justice ES Venkataramiah held that the transfer of the Patna Chief Justice was valid.
However, Justice P N Bhagwati, presiding judge, Justice D A Desai and Justice Murtaza Fazal Ali, held that the transfer was in the na- ture of a punishment and it was in the case of Justice Singh that the Chief Justice of India filed an affidavit of his own to clarify the stages of consultation between him and Justice Singh.
The Patna judge had contradicted the state- ments of the Chief Justice of India.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: PM ON OPPOSITION
PRIME MINISTER INDIRA Gandhi criticised Janata rule for reversing the process of devel- opment initiated by her government and ridiculed the opposition move for unity.
New Delhi
Addressing a public meeting here at the end of her visit to the state, Mrs Gandhi said she was not worried about the accusations being hurled at her government. The opposition was inthe habit of running down its achievements, she said.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.75]: ASSAM ON EDGE
SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS HAVE been tightened all over the Brahmaputra valley as four bomb explosions were reported from various parts of Darrang and North Lakhimpur districts with barely hours to go for the 36- hour “Path Bandh’ (road blockade) campaign organised by the AASU and AGP.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ‘THE IDEAS PAGE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.82]: WHAT THE OTHERS SAY
“"Non-violence does not seek to undermine the rule of law, only the repeal of unjust laws. Ultimately, it’s difficult to see how a just transition to net zero could
be achieved by unjust means..”

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: —DAWN
The virus’s endgame
History suggests that the end of respiratory pandemics is usually ambiguous. Closure is better viewed as the return of social life rather than all dashboard indicators hitting zero

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.71]: RAJESH M PARIKH
WEDONOT have a precise timeline, but past pandemics offer tantalising clues. The wide- spread use of dashboards has created the per- ception that the pandemic will end when all dashboard indicators hit zero (infections, cases and fatalities). However, history sug- gests this is the most unlikely outcome.
In the past 130 years, respiratory pan- demics have been followed by annual sea- sonal waves fuelled by viral endemicity, which generally lasts until the next pan- demic. What goes down, comes back up. The term “waves” to refer to patterns of disease spread during an outbreak was first used during the Russian Flu pandemic of 1889. It lasted three years, had multiple phases of spikes and valleys with the second phase be- ing the most severe.
The Spanish Flu of 1918-20 had three dis- tinct peaks. It began as a small wave in March 1918, which subsided during the summer. Following the initial peak in cases, a larger peak occurred in the fall of 1918. A third peak occurred during the winter and spring of 1919. This wave subsided in the summer of 1919, signalling the end of the pandemic. It is estimated that over 500 mil- lion people were infected and about 100 million died. Although the pandemic sub- sided, the viruses didn’t go away; a descen- dant of the Spanish Flu virus, the contem- porary H1N1, is circulating even today.
Multiple factors contribute individually or in combination to determine disease pat- terns. Some diseases are seasonal, and the waves follow seasonal patterns. Human be- haviour and interactions also affect viral spread. In India, during the monsoons, due to crowding, a spike in vector-borne diseases (dengue and malaria) is common. Lifestyle choices, too, play a role — school closings dur- ing summer and winter have been linked to reduced social contacts, and thereby reduc- tion in influenza cases.
A third factor that influences disease spread is the level of immunity in the com- munity (herd immunity). As more individu- als gain immunity either through infection and/or by vaccination, they indirectly offer protection to those who are not infected. The disease spread slows and eventually halts as the virus is unable to find new hosts to infect.
The epidemiology of previous deadly coronaviruses (SARS-CoV-1, and MERS-CoV) differs significantly from that of SARS-CoV- 2; hence these pathogens are not helpful models for predicting the future of the Covid- 19 pandemic. Influenza pandemics are our best comparative models. At least eight in- fluenza pandemics have occurred since the early 1700s. Seven of them had an initial peak that faded away without any major interven- tion over the course of a few months.
Following that, around six months after the initial spike, each of those seven pandemics experienced a second significant peak. After the initial wave of infections, certain pan- demics displayed recurrent smaller waves of cases over the next two years. The 1968 pan- demic was the only one to follow a more clas- sic influenza-like seasonal pattern, with a late fall/winter spike followed by a second surge the following winter. The second year saw an increase in pandemic-related mortality in
various locations, notably in Europe.
The course of these pandemics was not significantly influenced by vaccination. There were no flu vaccinations available in 1918.
When the H2N2 epidemic swept the globe in 1957, flu vaccination was primarily used by the military. The United States developed ap- proximately 22 million doses of vaccine dur- ing the 1968 pandemic of H3N2, but by the time it was available, the worst of the epi- demic had gone. Yet, vaccines play a crucial role in controlling mortality and the burden on healthcare.
Acombination of herd immunity and the virus mutating to become less infectious and severe led to the eventual end of past pan- demics. Usually, viruses don’t just go away.
Following three pandemics since 1900, the influenza A strain mutated to become in- creasingly human-adapted and eventually displaced the dominant seasonally circulat- ing influenza virus. Viruses descended from the 1918 virus have caused almost all in- stances of influenza A since, as well as all sub- sequent flu pandemics. Seasonal flu contin- ues to result in the deaths of 6,50,000 people each year.
SARS-CoV-2 will most likely become en- demic and continue to circulate in the human population synchronising to a seasonal pat- tern with less severity over time, as other less pathogenic coronaviruses, such as the OC43, 229E, NL63 and HKU1 and past pandemic in- fluenza viruses have done.
One of the probable scenarios is that through vaccination or natural immunity the adult population will develop immunity and only contract mild illness. SARS-CoV-2 will then primarily affect young children, who will probably only have mild illnesses. The dura- tion of immunity against SARS-CoV-2, both natural and through vaccination, is still un- certain. After six to eight months, individuals who have had Covid-19, show declining lev- els of neutralising antibodies. However, their bodies also produce memory B cells, which may develop antibodies in the event of a re- infection, and T cells, which can kill virus-in- fected cells.
SARS-CoV-2’s destiny will also be deter- mined by whether or not it spreads to wild animals. Several illnesses that have been con- trolled continue to exist because animal reservoirs allow infections to spread back into humans. Yellow fever, Ebola, and the chikun-
In their modelling study, the US-based Covid-19 Scenario Modelling Hub predicts a significant wave of Covid-19 cases that, by the first week of January 2022, will surpass those seen nationwide during the height of the Delta wave. While it is evident that the infection wave will be considerable, it is less clear what Omicron’s effect will be in terms of hospitalisations and fatalities. Regardless of where Omicron’s relative severity falls, the sheer number of cases expected implies that even a relatively mild Omicron variation has the potential to significantly stress, if not overwhelm, healthcare systems.
CR Sasikumar
gunya virus are examples of these diseases.
Many animals, including cats, rabbits and hamsters, are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2.
Mink are particularly susceptible to Covid-19, and outbreaks have occurred on mink farms in Denmark and the Netherlands.
Omicron has rapidly become the preva- lent variety in many countries. In their mod- elling study, the US-based Covid-19 Scenario Modelling Hub predicts a significant wave of Covid-19 cases that, by the first week of January 2022, will surpass those seen nation- wide during the height of the Delta wave.
While itis evident that the infection wave will be considerable, itis less clear what Omicron’s effect will be in terms of hospitalisations and fatalities, as much is unknown about the severity of primary, secondary, and break- through infections with Omicron compared to Delta and preceding variants. Regardless of where Omicron’s relative severity falls, the sheer number of cases expected implies that even a relatively mild Omicron variation has the potential to significantly stress, if not over- whelm, already overburdened healthcare systems. We are yet to see if Omicronis a step towards endemicity or one away from it.
The hope for targeting SARS-CoV-2 erad- ication has passed. Transitioning to a post- pandemic environment is not likely to be one with “zero-Covid”. The challenge then is to define the Covid-19 level that is accept- able for countries in a world that is funda- mentally interconnected.
The epidemiological characteristics of a pandemic’s end are not universally defined.
Prior respiratory pandemics illustrate that ends are usually ambiguous, and that pan- demic closure is better viewed as the return of social life rather than the attainment of spe- cific epidemiological goals. Pandemics end not when disease transmission ceases, but rather when the disease ceases to be news- worthy in the eyes of the public and in the judgement of media and political leaders who mould our attention and opinions. The end of a pandemic is more of a concern of lived experience than of biology, making it a social rather than a medical event.
The writer is director, Medical Research
and Hon. Neuropsychiatrist, Jaslok Hospital & Research Centre, Mumbai. He has co- authored The Coronavirus: What You Need To Know About The Global Pandemic
Teaching to transgress
Lessons from bell hooks on how to humanise academic culture

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.83]: AVUIT PATHAK
“Fear of losing control in the classroom often leads individual professors to fallinto a conven- tional teaching pattern wherein power is used destructively.” — bell hooks
AS ATEACHER, I have always felt that our aca- demic culture needs a thinker/ educationist/ emancipator like bell hooks. Even though we can no longer see, feel and experience her em- bodied existence, it is important for us to in- voke her time and again, allow ourselves to be touched by her passion and conviction, and re- define the meaning of teaching and scholar- ship. Yes, we have already read a series of obit- uaries; and enough has been said and written about this Black American feminist thinker, her sharp critique of racism and patriarchy, her ex- panded horizon that enabled her to continually write on gender, racism, sexuality, culture, ped- agogy, love and even children’s literature, and above all, the immense politico-intellectual strength that characterised her life’s trajectory — from being born in a working-class family, growing up in a ghettoised/segmented Black locality, and eventually emerging as a charis- matic professor nurturing and inspiring gener- ations of students.
However, | wish to stress three principles that bell hooks internalised as a scholar/teacher; and these principles, I would argue, have immense relevance if we wish to humanise the prevalent academic culture. To
begin with, let it be stated clearly that bell hooks was refreshingly different from a typical “value-neutral” academic — devoid of emo- tion and passion, and burdened with heavily technical and jargonised publications. And this sickness, every insider knows, is tempting; it has affected many Marxist, poststructuralist, postmodernist and even feminist thinkers and writers. Ironically, scholarship has been equated with incomprehensibility. But then, bell hooks was endowed with immense courage; she defied the style of this sort of prose; instead, her books and articles flow like ariver, her words touch the soul of the reader.
Ina way, theory, for her, was like poetry. Yes, many scholars of the leading American uni- versities where she taught were not very happy with her style and mode of writing, Yet, she inspired us, and gave us the confidence to realise that writing, instead of being reduced to apurely narcissistic exercise of demonstrating one’s “intellect”, can be therapeutic.
Second, she altered the character of the classroom. In a way, she took Paulo Freire pretty seriously. For her, emancipatory edu- cation ought to be dialogic and experiential.
Andateacher ought to cultivate the art of non- judgmental/compassionate listening. Quite often, in our classrooms, no engaged dialogue takes place. A “scholarly” lecture by a profes- sor, absence of lived reality and experience (even poetry or popular culture is taught like
differential calculus), with a lengthy reading list, and repeated production of jargonised seminar papers: Most of our students expe- rience this routine, or coldness of academia.
But then, bell hooks transformed her class- rooms, altered the meaning of the relation- ship between teacher and student, and en- couraged young minds — particularly, Black women in a White male-dominated space — to articulate their voices, and their pain and trauma. Through this dialogue, reflexivity and inner churning, she continually interrogated patriarchy, racism, and other forms of domina- tion in her classroom. Of course, most of us seek to avoid this sort of engagement with our students because it can also be emotionally taxing. Hence, quite often, our engagement with students remains limited to a bureau- cratically-defined task — “covering” the syl- labus, grading the students, and then forget- ting them. Anyone who wants to join the vocation of teaching, I feel, must read bell hooks — particularly, Teaching to Transgress:
Education as the Practice of Freedom.
Third, bell hooks taught us another impor- tant lesson: Love is the essence of revolution.
Quite often, ina dry intellectual milieu, we ex- perience the absence of warmth. And itis im- possible not to witness the growing culture of cynicism and despair. But bell hooks, despite the violence she saw in the world, didn’t lose her spirited religiosity — the religiosity of love
and hope. We live amid a culture that nor- malises violence, be it structural, psychic or cultural. We live amid spectacular con- sumerism with the violence of what Erich Fromm would have regarded as a “having mode of existence”. It is a hyper-competitive social Darwinism that, as Thich Nhat Hanh would have said, negates the art of living “here and now” with mindfulness and meditative calmness, and the hyper-masculine aggres- sion of militarism, religious fundamentalism and toxic nationalism. It is easy to accept this pattern, and “adjust” oneself to this pathol- ogy. However, bell hooks reminded us of the “redemptive” power of love, compassion, em- pathy and forgiveness. In moments of pain and despair, I read her amazing book, AllAbout Love, and echo with her: “No matter what has happened in our past, when we open our hearts to love we can live as if born again, not forgetting the past but seeing it ina new way, letting it live inside us inanew way. We go for- ward with the fresh insight that the past can no longer hurt us.”
Without love, there cannot be any peda- gogy of hope. Possibly, for those who celebrate the enchanting power of engaged pedagogy, and still dream of a compassionate, inclusive and egalitarian world, bell hooks would re- main alive, and continue to sing her songs.
The writer is professor of Sociology at JNU
Minimum support, maximum gain
Arguments against legal guarantee for MSP are
based on poor data, bad
economics. Legal backing
would encourage crop diversification, food security

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.68]: PUSHPENDRA SINGH
FARMER UNIONS SUSPENDED their year- long agitation after the government repealed the three farm laws and later reached an agreement on other demands, including forming a committee to look into the issue of a legal guarantee for minimum support prices (MSP). This demand has become the subject of much debate since the start of the farmer agitation, centred around its eco- nomic and legal feasibility. Economists have put forth many arguments, but most are not supported by data or sound economic logic.
Ashok Gulati and Shweta Saini wrote (‘How to help the farmer’, IE, December 20) that Rs 54 lakh crore will be required to purchase just 10 percent of the output of 23 MSP crops, excluding sugarcane. Nothing could be far- ther from the truth.
Let's frame what the demand actuallyis.
It has two parts: First, MSP should be based onthe comprehensive cost of production C2, as determined by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) plus 50 percent as recommended by Swaminathan Commission. Second, the 23 crops for which MSP is currently announced by the govern- ment should be legally purchased at or above the MSP price by anyone who “willingly en- ters” the market. The MSP of a crop should be treated as a “reserve price”, below which no trade should be allowed legally. Farmers are not demanding that the government ora trader be “forced to buy all the market sur- plus” at MSP. Irrespective of the quantity ofa crop they are willing to buy, they must not buy it below the declared MSP. It’s also un- derstood that the government would keep on buying quantities required under the Food Security Act and for meeting the buffer norms for foodgrains.
Now, to the economics. The total value of the output of the 23 crops at MSP prices for 2020-21 was about Rs 12 lakh crore. (This wasalso the estimate of Harish Damodaran, ‘What meeting MSP demand would cost govt’, IE, November 29.) The total MSP value for a crop is calculated after multiplying the government’s figures for the annual produc- tion quantity by the MSP. Adding all the 23 MSP crops gives the above figure. This is gov- ernment data and simple math. But all of the produce is not marketed or sold. The popu- lation of farmers, including their family members, is about 50 per cent of the country.
They retain a big part of their produce for self- consumption, animal feed, and seeds. Some of it is also exchanged within the village and a partis also eaten by rodents or perishes dur- ing harvesting, transportation and storage.
About Rs 4 lakh crore worth of the 23 MSP crops is consumed in this manner. Only about Rs 8 lakh crore worth of MSP crops is actually marketed. If we look at the data for the government purchase of these 23 crops at MSP, including sugarcane, the amount comes to about Rs 4 lakh crore. So, only about Rs4 lakh crore worth of MSP crops are being

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.76]: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
bought by the private sector. Farmers are seeking the legal enforcement of MSP on this portion as well.
Private sector purchases may be below, at par or above the MSP, depending on mar- ket demand. If we take the aggregate for all the 23 MSP crops, the total price paid by the private sector is on an average 25 per cent be- low the MSP value. So, currently, the private sector is purchasing the Rs 4 lakh crore worth of MSP crops for about Rs 3 lakh crore. Ifthere was legal status for MSP, the private sector would have paid a maximum of Rs one lakh crore more to the farmers for the same quan- tities in 2020-21. The government would not be under any greater financial burden. If MSP is enforced, the private sector may purchase the same or lesser quantity, depending on the demand.
By giving legal status to MSP, this extra Rs 1 lakh crore would flow from the private sector to the farmers, who will spend it and create more demand in the economy. This will lead to an increase in employment, in- vestment and eventually, government taxes.
Ensuring all the 23 crops are legally sold at MSP will also lead to crop diversification as there would be no incentive to grow only those crops where MSP is now available — mostly paddy, wheat and sugarcane. So, the country would also come out from under surplus paddy, wheat and sugarcane produc- tion situation, which will have multiple eco- nomic and ecological benefits.
Alegal backing for MSP is a great instru- ment to control the production quantities of various crops to match demand. The coun- try could also become self-sufficient in edi- ble oils and pulses if we ensure remunera- tive MSPs for these crops. This has been proven in the case of pulses where produc- tion has increased substantially, reducing im- port dependence over the last four years. If the government and private prices are the same, farmers won't seek out the govern- ment to purchase their crop. So the govern- ment will not be under pressure to buy more than it requires.
The 23 MSP crops consist of staple cere- als, pulses, oilseeds and a few cash crops. Our country still ranks poorly on the global hunger index, so these crops are always in demand. Some economists argue that ifthe MSP is legally enforced, the private sector won't purchase the crops and all the quan- tities would have to be purchased by the government. Sugarcane prices are pre- scribed by the government but private mills have not stopped their procurement. And have industries closed due to the Minimum Wages Act? Is nobody purchasing petrol, diesel because the government is charging exorbitant taxes?
Ensuring remunerative prices for our farmers is also essential for food security.
Food security is tied to national security and sovereignty. Farmers know that there is no cogent economic or fiscal argument to deny them this right. Legal MSP is the right of our farmers and they won'tstop until they getit.
Otherwise, it won’t be long before we fall back to the “ship-to-mouth” import-de- pendent foodgrain situation of the 1960s.
The writer is president, Kisan Shakti Sangh and an alumnus of the Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: A STEADY HAND
THIS REFERS TO the editorial, ‘Risk and flow’ (IE, December 30). It appears from the RBI report that the banking sector has battled the Covid problem effectively, but a closer reading shows that this conclusion could be mislead- ing. Asset quality improvement has resulted from write-offs and the moratorium on asset classification, not so much from recoveries. Further, potential bad loans, as seen in rising SMAs and stress in MSME sector, are high. Added to this are the challenges of locus standi that PSU banks face due to mergers and amalgamations, which dilute focused attention to op- erational matters. The road ahead for banks is rocky and they will need a steady hand at the helm.
Hemant Contractor, Pune

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.87]: NUMBERS SPEAK
THIS REFERS TO the article, ‘The wel- fare mandate’ (IE, December 30). The author and biographer’s eulogy for Yogi Adityanath government deftly skirted the problems related to health and poverty in UP. The critics can be blamed for being biased. But what about the government's own agency, NITI Aayog.
The report, “The Healthy States, Progressive India” prepared by it along with the Union Health Ministry and the World Bank surveyed 19 large states on indicators such as neonatal mortality rate, under-five mortality rate, sex ratio at birth, maternal mortality ratio, mod- ern contraception prevalence rate, full
immunisation coverage, antenatal care, identification and cure of TB. Analysis of these indicators found Kerala re- mained the best-performing state whereas UP was at the bottom.
Similarly, NITI Aayog has used another set of 12 indicators to calculate the first ever Multidimensional Poverty Index ( MPI), that belies PM Modi and CM Yogi's claims of “unprecedented devel- opment” in the past few years, with 37.79 per cent population of the state being identified as “multidimension- ally poor”.
LRMurmu, Delhi

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.73]: FRIENDLY NEIGHBOUR
THIS REFERS TO the article, ‘The Moving Triangle’(IE, December 30). To its small island neighbour tackling multiple challenges, India can offer so- lutions that can help achieve two diplomatic. First, considering China’s increasing footprint in the Indian Ocean, it is important for New Delhi to keep a close watch on Chinese activi- ties in the region. It may happen that small countries could be “trapped” in different Chinese _ initiatives.
Finalisation of the Trincomalee oil tank farm project is therefore a step in the right direction. Second, India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy can ben- efit from this project. Timely imple- mentation of projects outside India has been New Delhi's Achilles’ heel. By fulfilling its commitments, India can keep China at bay.
Dewang Ganesh Thosar, Raigad
New Delhi
12

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: EXPRESS NETWORK

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021
Namita Gokhale, Tamil writer Ambai win Sahitya Akademi Award

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: ADITYA VADDEPALLI NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
TAMIL FEMINIST writer Ambai, Kannada _ biographer DS Nagabhushan, Telugu poet Goreti Venkanna, and English author Namita Gokhale, among others, are this year’s winners of the Sahitya Akademi Award. The award was announced for liter- ary works in 20 languages on Thursday.
This year, seven books of po-
Ambai (left); and Gokhale
etry, two novels, five short stories, two plays, one biography and au- tobiography, a book on criticism, and a poem were chosen for the award. Awards in Gujarati, Maithili, Manipuri, and Urdu lan-
Cardinal Oswald Gracias, one of the seven special advisers to Pope Francis, at Raj Bhavan. Express
Pope visit likely next year, says adviser

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE PANAJI, DECEMBER 30
DAYS AFTER Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of his visit to the Vatican City on Goa’s 60th liberation day on December 19, Cardinal Oswald Gracias, one of the seven special advisers to Pope Francis, visited the Raj Bhavan here on Thursday.
Cardinal Gracias said prepara- tions for Pope Francis's visit to India are being made for 2022-end, or towards the beginning of 2023.
“We have to prepare the peo- ple spiritually also. With the Prime Minsiter’s Office, we have already begun (discussions) on where he could go, where he could stay, etc. hope Goa is one of those important stops,” Cardinal Gracias told Prudent Media news channel here.
In his address on December 19 in Taleigaon, the Prime
Minister had spoken of his visit to the Vatican City in October and mentioned that he had ex- tended an invitation to Pope Francis to visit India. “I invited him (the Pope) to India.... Pope Francis said, ‘This is the greatest gift you have given me’. This is his affection towards India’s di- versity and our vibrant democ- racy,” Modi had said.
On his meeting with Goa Governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, Cadrinal Gracias, president of Catholic Bishop’s Conference of India, who was on a three-day visit to Goa, said, “We hada heart- to-heart talk and exchange about the good of the nation, good of Goa and how we can take the country forward...” Cadrinal Gracias also visited his ancestral home in Goa’s Orlim.
“We are all worried about the pandemic. We are hoping the pandemic tapers off and goes off” he said.
guages will be announced at a later date. The awardees will re- ceive a cash prize of Rs 1,00,000.
The other winners are Mwdai Gahai (Bodo), Sanjiv Verenkar (Konkani), Hrushikesl Mallick (Odia), Meethesh Nirmohi (Rajasthani), Vindeshwariprasad __Nishr Sanskrit), Arjun Chawla Sindhi), Raj Rahi (Dogri), Kiran Gurav (Marathi), Khalid Hussain Punjabi), Niranjan Hansda Santali), Anuradha Sarma Pujari Assamese), George Onakkoor
(Malayalam), Bratya Basu (Bengali), Daya Prakash Sinha (Hindi), Wali Muhammad Aseer Kishtwari (Kashmiri), Chhabilal Upadhyaya (Nepali).
Talking about winning the prestigious award for her book Things to Leave Behind, Gokhale says, “To be a Sahitya Akademi awardee as an English writer, amidst those books in 22 lan- guages, is a privilege. I believe in the concept of many languages, one literature.”
Gokhale’s book is set during
1840-1912 in the Kumaon region.
“Itlooks at the new fragile moder- nity that was emerging at that time. It looks at colonial history from the point of view of both the colonisers and of Kumaon — my home state. It has many themes but the basic story is about three generations, of stubborn Kumaon women. There’s a peculiar obsti- nacy that characterises the mountain women,” she told The Indian Express.
A lot of the material for the book came from Gokhale’s previ-
Yet to determine tax liabilities
of raided perfume tra

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: ENS ECONOMIC BUREAU NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
CLARIFYING THAT tax liabilities from the recent cash seizure from searches conducted at the residential and business prem- ises of Uttar Pradesh-based busi- nessman Peeyush Jain are yet to be determined, GST authorities on Thursday said no deposit of tax dues has been made so far.
“The total amount of cash in the ongoing case from residen- tial and factory premises of M/s Peeyush Jain has been kept as case property in the safe custody of the State Bank of India pend- ing further investigations. No de- posit of tax dues has been made by M/s Odochem Industries from the seized money to dis- charge their tax liabilities and their tax liabilities are yet to be determined,” the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) said in a statement.
Citing some reports which stated that the department is treating the Rs 197.49-crore cash recovered from Jain as business turnover and a fourth of it being allowed to be deposited as tax, DGGl called such reports "purely speculative". Voluntary submis- sions by the accused are under investigation, which will decide the exact nature of the liability, it stated.
The DGGI stated, "Voluntary submissions made by Shri Peeyush Jain are a subject mat- ter of ongoing investigations and any view on the source of cash
der: DGGI
(pie =
Gold and cash recovered in a raid on Peeyush Jain’s residence in Kannauj on Wednesday. PT!
seized by the department and the exact tax liabilities of M/s Odochem Industries or other parties involved in the investiga- tion shall be taken on the basis of appraisal of evidences col- lected from various premises during the searches and the out- come of further investigations.”
A total Rs 197.49 crore cash, 23 kg gold and some offending goods of high value have been recovered so far in searches car- ried out in UP's Kannauj at Odochem Industries — a manu- facturer of perfumery com- pounds — and its proprietor Peeyush Jain, the statement said.
The department denied it had treated the recoveries as turnover and the accused has been allowed to deposit Rs 52
crore as tax dues. Such reports are without any basis and seek to "undermine the integrity of the ongoing investigations which are being carried out ina most professional manner based on specific intelligence", it said.
The DGGI said that "based on voluntary admission of guilt and evidence available on record," Jain was arrested on December 26 and produced before the compe- tent court the next day, which sent him to 14 days of judicial cus- tody. Jain has been charged under Section 132 of the Central Goods and Services Act, 2017, which deals with offences of supplying any goods or services without an invoice, the issue of any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services, or evading tax.
ous work Mountain Echoes:
Reminiscences of Kumaoni Women, where the author ex- plores the oral history of the Kumaon region through the memories of her grandmother and three great aunts. “It gave me an idea of how people lived, es- pecially the women of the house- hold. My great grandfather, BD Pandey, had written the first his- tory of Kumaon, which was a credible source. Another source was The Himalayan Gazetteer, written by ET Atkinson,” she says.
Rajasthan gets Centre’s nod for mining in Chhattisgarh

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.59]: EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE JAIPUR, DECEMBER 30
THE RAJASTHAN government has received environmental clearance from Union environ- ment ministry for mining in Chhattisgarh's Hasdeo Aranya Coal Field, state officials said on Thursday, months after the Wildlife Institute of India raised concerns over the project.
The state has received clear- ance for Phase 2 of Parsa (East) and Kete Basan (PEKB) in Chhattisgarh, Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary for en- ergy, said Thursday.
Approval from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change will enable the state to start mining activities in an area of 1,136 hectares in PEKB, he said.
Rajasthan will now need ap- proval of the Chhattisgarh gov- ernment on both proposals. The Congress-led governments in the two states, however, are at loggerheads over mining clear- ance in Parsa block, located at Surguja district of Chhattisgarh.
The Indian Express reported in November that despite a biodi- versity report from the Wildlife Institute of India warning that forests in Hasdeo Aranya Coal Field should be declared a “no- go area”, Chhattisgarh was push- ing for permission to start Phase- Il of mining in the PEKB coal block, in the same area.
Gurgaon to get commercial hub on lines of ‘Dubai model’

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: SUKHBIR SIWACH CHANDIGARH, DECEMBER 30
HARYANA DEPUTY Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala Thursday said the government has planned to launch a Global City project in Gurgaon, spread over 1,000 acres, “on the model of Dubai’s Business Bay” in 2022.
Chautala told The Indian Express that they have plans to initiate the tendering process for the project within a month. “The map has been prepared for the Global City and we plan to launch it by the first quarter of 2022. The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (HSIIDC) will develop the infra- structure and auction the big plots. We plan to develop the area ina phased manner; ini- tially, we intend to develop a chunk of 50 or 100 acres of land only. On the model of Dubai’s Business Bay, it will have shop- ping malls, commercial and res- idential buildings. For construc- tion purposes, 3.5 FAR (floor area ratio) will be permitted.” According to Chautala, the Global City will have walking, cy- cling and service lanes: “It will have non-stop lanes too where vehicle crossing will take place via underground lanes only.
There will be space for civic amenities at underground spaces like in Delhi's Connaught Place.” He further said the Global City will have the biggest heli- hub, which will be spread over 25 acres. “It will be much bigger than a helipad,” he added.
Officials say the site of the Global City is part of Gurgaon’s Sector-36-37 and is located at the junction of Pataudi road and Dwarka Expressway. A source
Business e infocus

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.9]: EXPLAINED
DUBAI'S BUSINESS Bay is a hotspot of residential and hospitality highrises, with several recognisable landmarks. The project in Gurgaon, planned across 1,000 acres, will similarly have shopping malls and commercial buildings as well as residential com- plexes. Initially, 50-100 acres will be developed.
The Global City is coming up at the junction of Pataudi road and Dwarka Expressway.
said: “The site has been chosen for high-end development.
Mainly, only green industries will be permitted here like manufac- turing of items related to elec- tronics, bio-technology, and in- formation technology. Chautala has instructed officials to initiate the tendering process early so that the project takes off soon.”
Officials said the 1,000 acres of land is part of 1,383 acres which Reliance had returned to the Haryana governmentin 2014.
Earlier, there were plans to set up a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) here but that did not take off.
Chautala said the government has 130 acres available to develop acommercial city near the Global City. “The commercial city will have four dedicated towers. For example, one may be for gifts only, another for furniture items, and third may be for residential utilisation items. The idea is sim- ple: residents get everything from one building.”
MoU - SEC!
In order to realize green energy objectives and the GOl’s efforts towards carbon neutral economy, a MoU was re- cently signed between BPCL and Solar Energy Corpora- tion of India Limited (SECI) in New Delhi.
= E = ae we
CSR - OIL As part of OIL’s CSR intervention, the company recently launched brand Harbest (Best of Harvest) under CSR project OIL Jeevika at Indian Institute of Entrepreneur- ship (IIE), Guwahati.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: AWARD - WAPCOS
Dr. MN Pandey, Union Minister of Heavy Industries, pre- sented the “Industry Excellence Award-2021” to RK Agr- awal, CMD, WAPCOS, in the presence of P Kapoor, Dir. (Fi- nance) & A Mishra, Director (Comml. & HRD), WAPCOS.
The LIC of India “LIC Digi Zone” to enhance the Digital Oper- ations of LIC was inaugurated by LIC Chairperson MLR. Ku- mar, in the presence of MD’s — Raj Kumar, Siddhartha Mo- hanty, BC Patnaik and C. Vikas Rao, ZM, Western Zone.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: CSR - REC
REC has committed financial assistance of about Rs.1.27 crore under its CSR initiative to PRS department of NIMHANS in Bengaluru. The facilities will benefit more than 1000 people with mental illness each year.
AGREEMENT - PNB PNB entered into tie-up arrangement with Lendingkart Fi- nance Ltd for Co-lending Business, in presence of Suren-
dra Kumar Dixit, CGM PNB and Arun Sharma, GM (Agricul- ture), PNB, Ashok Kumar Gupta, GM (IMSME) PNB.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: HONOUR - NBCC
Inthe 36th Indian Engineering Congress organized by IEI in New Delhi, PK Gupta, CMD, NBCC delivered the 34th Dr.
Ajudhia Nath Khosla Memorial Lecture on the topic - “Infra- structure Sector Consultancy-Challenges & Solutions.”
MoU - NCL
NCL inked an MoU with CSIR IICT, Hyderabad for Clean Coal Technologies & Gainful Utilisation of Overburden in the virtual presence of CMD PK Sinha & others, from NCL & Dr. VM Tiwari, Director, & others from CSIR IICT, Hyderabad.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: PASSING OUT PARADE - CRPF
117 Directly Appointed Gazetted Officers of CRPF passed out from the CRPF Academy in a ceremony marked with impeccable parade, fanfare, and roar of oath to serve the na- tion. N Rai, MoS for Home Affairs, was the Chief Guest.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.86]: AGREEMENT - REC
REC has entered into an agreement with KW Development Bank for availing ODA term loan of USD 169.5 million under Indo-German Bilateral Partnership in accordance with the approval granted by Dept. of Economic Affairs.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: EVENTS,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: ANNOUNCEMENTS,
MoU - NBCC
NBCC signed a MoU with MDI, Murshidabad for construction ofits campus in next 5 years. Prof. (Dr.) Atmanand, Director, MDI and AK Pathak, GM (Engg.), NBCC along with senior faculty and staff were present during the ceremony.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: LAUNCHES,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: CSR
——— OS ee
PARTICIPATION - AUTOMETERS ALLIANCE LTD Autometers Alliance Ltd participated as one of the sponsors inthe 14th edition of International Railway Equipment Exhib- ition, 2021. R. Sharda, CEO, among others can be seen in the picture.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: INITIATIVES,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: APPOINTMENTS,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: NOTICE BOARD CORPORATE ASSOCIATE DIARY APPOINTMENTS, MOVEMENTS, CELEBRATIONS, HONOURS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: AWARD - PFC
Dr. MN Pandey, Union Minister of Heavy Industries, Gol, presented the ‘IEI Industry Excellence Award 2021’ to R.
Rahman, Executive Director (PR & CSR) and PK Sinha, Ex- ecutive Director (Projects), from PFC.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.87]: AGREEMENT - PNB
PNB entered into a tie-up arrangement with Paisalo Dig- ital Ltd. & Vedika Credit Capital Ltd. for co-lending busi- ness, in the presence of SK Dixit, CGM & A Sharma, GM (Agriculture), PNB.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: APPOINTMENTS
IOCL DS Nanaware has taken charge as Director (Pip- elines), Indian Oil Corporation Limited. With a rich and var- ied experience of over 36 years, he is also the Chairman of IHB Ltd. a JV of IndianOil, HPCL and BPCL, which is building the world’s longest LPG pipeline from Kandla to Gorakhpur. Before he assumed the office of Director (Pipelines), he was ED (Projects) at the Pipelines Division HO. Earlier, as the head of Southern Region Pipelines (SRPL), he was instrumental in starting the prestigious En- nore-Tuticorin Gas Pipeline Project and successfully com- missioning its Ennore-Manali and Ramanathapuram-Tuti- corin sections.
SAIL Vejendla Srinivasa Chakravarthy recently took charge as Director (Com- mercial) of SAIL. Chak- ravarthy joined SAIL in 1987 in the company’s Central Marketing Organization. Ris- ing through the ranks, Chakravarthy became the ED, Market- ing, in SAIL before taking over as the Director (Commer- Cial) of the company. He is known for his commercial & marketing acumen. As ED, he has contributed to formulation and implementation of various products and price strategy.
New Delhi
ONGC As a part of the observance of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, ONGC’s Tripura Asset organized a seminar on Exploration & Production and cyclothon to usher a greener tomorrow during 3-4 December 2021. The seminar, organized on 4 December, focused on the key areas of the role of Hydrocarbon Industry in the Future Economy of Tripura State and the seminar aimed to increase collaboration among the various business partners in the E&P business in Tripura.
TP-DDL won two prominent awards — Platinum Award under the ‘Best Country Award for Overall CSR Performance’ category and Silver Award for ‘Best Community Programme’ categories at the prestigious 13th Global CSR Awards. The awards were announced during a virtual award ceremony. Company’s CSR Initiatives are run under the mother brand Saathi (a companion) in order to effectively reach out to over 1 million underprivileged people, also company’s consumers, residing in 220+ JJ clusters in North Delhi. Saathi focuses on 4 main pillars - Women Literacy (Unnati), Youth Empowerment (Ujjwal), Better Health (Sanjeevani), and Energy Conservation (Club Enerji).
THDCIL Gol and State Government of Arunachal Pradesh have offered 02 Mega Hydro Projects to THDCIL in Arunachal Pradesh for implementation.
These Hydro Projects are viz. 1200 MW Kalai-ll and Demwe(Lower) 1750 MW in Lohit Basin of Arunachal Pradesh. These projects have been offered as a part of Basin wise Indication of Projects in North Eastern Region as overall development initiative of the state.
RK Vishnoi, CMD, thanked the Ministry of Power, Gol and Government of Arunachal Pradesh and said that very soon THDCIL is going to open office establishment in Arunachal Pradesh to expedite the above mandate.
REC State Governments of Meghalaya and Assam have become the frontrunners in planning their Operational and financial reforms as well as the underlying works to accomplish the same under Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (Nodal Agency — REC). Accordingly, their state-level Distribution Reforms Committee (DRC) and State Cabinet have approved the proposals, including Action Plan and DPR, for consideration under the scheme.
ATS Group ATS HomekKraft has received an overwhelming response for the first phase of its Pious Orchards project in Noida. The Company has achieved sales value of more than INR 350 crores in the Project in a single-day event, wherein 290 apartments were sold with an area of approx. 700,000 sq ft. This volume of sales makes Pious Orchards launch as the most successful launch, in terms of volume in NCR market, and one of the most successful launches across India in recent times.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: MOVEMENTS,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CELEBRATIONS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: I3

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021
90 @ieExplained #ExpressExplained
If there are questions of current or contemporary relevance that you would like explained, please write to explained@indianexpress.com

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.83]: CORONAVIRUS DASHBOARD
INDIA NEW CASES (last 24 hours) 13,154
15000
5,326
7,495 7,189
1200 9000 6000
3000
LAST 10 DAYS (daily)
6,531 9,195
13,154
Dec20 e
ACTIVE CASES, DECEMBER 29: ( Dec 28: 77,002)
e Dec29
NEW CASES, TOP 5 STATES Maharashtra i 3500 source:
Kerala 2.36 Ae fealh West Bengal 9 1,089 & Family Welfare;
Delhi I 923 Dec 29 figures up- Tamil Nadu ; | 739 dated on Dec 30

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: SURGE IN THE CITIES: LAST 10 DAYS
DELHI MUMBAI ——— 1500 > R:2.51(Dec.23-29) 1,313 | 4000, R:2.01(Dec23-28) 3,671 1000 500-91 ) 20 Dec 30 Dec 20 Dec 30 Dec PUNE BENGALURU ———— 5005 R:1.11(Dec23-26) 477 | 6007R:1.11(Dec24-29) 565
250493 146 (e) fe) 20 Dec 30 Dec 20 Dec 30 Dec KOLKATA CHENNAI 1,090 1200) R: 1.13 (Dec 26-29) 400- R:1.26(Dec26-29) 397 800 300 400 145 200 126 100 (e) fe) 20 Dec 30 Dec 20 Dec 30 Dec R: Basic reproduction number INDIATOTALDOSES 143,83,22,742
(1st DOSE: 84,16,19,301; 2nd: 59,67,03,441)
MiFirstdose Mi Second dose
60,00000 51,98,877 51,54,800 30,00,000 15,58,945 16,32,301 0 T pec20 «__LASTIODAYS (daily) | pag

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: DOSES ON DECEMBER 29
(Ist DOSE: 16,32,301; 2nd: 51,54,800)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: VATA & RAL
foitate for 45 ote Sirengthen your Main Exam Preparation with our
Online & Offline Courses

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: SANDEEP SINGH & SUNNY VERMA
THE OMICRON-LED surge in Covid-19 cases around the world has poured cold water on the hopes of rapid economic recovery, and dampened investor sentiment. Gates of workplaces and businesses that had opened in anticipation of a return to nor- malcy are being slammed shut again as par- tial lockdowns of varying intensity begin to be re-imposed.
How the pandemic pans out in its third year will determine the pace and nature of the recovery. Investments across asset classes will depend on factors such as infla- tion, interest rate movements, credit growth, foreign portfolio investments, and the price of crude oil. Employment genera- tion, and a certainty of steady income for those at the bottom of the pyramid who were hit by the economic disruptions of the
first and second waves, will be key to long- term sustainable growth for India.
Omicron concern
There is cautious optimism that the new variant, which is highly transmissible but not necessarily equally deadly, will not trig- ger a wave of serious illness that will over- whelm hospitals and fill cremation grounds in the way Delta did in April-May. Some ex- perts have argued that the emergence of Omicron in fact signals the “beginning of the end” of the pandemic, and the virus may be entering the endemic stage.
It is hoped that lockdowns will remain relatively soft and there will be limited dis- ruption in economic activity; however, there is also concern that exponentially ris- ing case numbers may hurt consumption and the revival of corporate earnings.
"Now that Covid is aknown unknown, it may not hit economic activity, C ] George, MD, Geojit Financial Services, said. “The big- ger concern is over the way inflation and in- terest rates will move in 2022, and the im- pact they will have on debt and equity markets.”
Interest rates The stimulus programmes announced
Year when hybrid workforce can expect 5G and wait for metaverse
The metaverse is an idea whose time has come, and tools to connect to it may become more accessible.
The advent of 5G connectivity will help, besides impacting sectors such as automobiles and medicines.
And the software that enabled working from home will have to evolve to cater to a hybrid work model.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.85]: NANDAGOPAL RAJAN NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
LAST YEAR, the predictions were somewhat easy. We said technologies around working from home would get better. And they did, from more features in all the videoconfer- encing software most of us now call office, to better front-facing cameras in the new computers that make us all look good at work. Yes, there was better access to doctors via online platforms even as we stayed away from hospitals as far as possible. The gadg- ets did get better as more companies took the Apple route to get their own silicon in place. But no, 5G is still somewhere in the air as far as India is concerned.
But 2021 has also been a mixed year.
Although still in the middle of the pandemic, we have ventured out of our homes after a long period of caution as the cases came down in countries like India after a brutal sec- ond wave. Travel was back, so was eating out and cinemas. But that does not mean the pandemic is over, and Omicron has re- minded us of that. The last few weeks of this year have suddenly made people rewrite the outlook for the coming year. Here is how we think the tech world will be in the third year of the pandemic.
Building the metaverse
Metaverse is more than a buzzword. It is an idea whose time has come. But then, the metaverse is not really a new concept; it has been around as an idea for decades. In fact, most of us are already in the metaverse in some way or the other, especially children who spend hours building their own worlds in games like Minecraft. For them, the restric- tions of the pandemic have meant that the online realm is where they communicate, ideate, build and dream.
Inthe new year, we will see many compa- nies try to do the same with the metaverse.
They will all start propping up pillars of what will be “a new way to experience the Internet”. This is not going to be an easy task because there are no standards yet to make
these different silos interoperable. So even as you will hear the word metaverse being used for everything people are unsure of on the Internet, there will be a lot of work hap- pening behind the screens to make this one connected virtual universe and not a collec- tion of bubbles.
The metaverse is different from the Internet as we know it because it gives users the ability to create, transfer and possess stuff purely inits realm. And the necessity to make these transactions possible within the dif- ferent meta bubbles will be what actually starts connecting the now disjointed worlds.
You could also see some of the tools to connect to the metaverse in its rich form be- come more accessible, like VR/AR headsets from companies such as Oculus and others.
But the fact is that you really don’t need all this to start being a part of the metaverse;
you are already in it.
Smartphones and beyond
With a new way to experience the Internet just round the corner, it won’t be surprising if we start seeing the next big smartphone disruptor in the coming year.
Let’s get one thing clear: The smartphone dis- ruptor does not have to be a smartphone or something that carries forward that form fac- tor. In fact, what could really change the way we access the Internet, communicate and work could be something without a screen we can touch.
The smartphone sector has hit saturation point with hardly any innovation happening in terms of changing the user experience drastically, and this is why any concept that offers a better way to experience the meta- verse version of the Internet could well be the future of personal communication.
5G, finally?
One of the enablers of the metaverse will be access to high-speed, low-latency and zero-downtime 5G networks. India has fi- nally announced a timeline for its rollout in cities and this could trigger a high degree of adoption for both the latest generation of connectivity as well as the new version of
ndia’s economy and your investments: flags to watch in 2022
by governments to support national economies in 2020 and 2021 have led to the problem of inflation. While inflation in India is still in a comfortable zone, it has touched a four-decade high in the United States. The Federal Reserve decided to increase the pace of reducing monthly asset purchases;
it is also likely to hike rates twice, possibly thrice, in 2022.
Market participants say the pace of withdrawal of stimulus and hike in interest rates may disrupt equity and debt markets going forward. As the Fed started tapering, foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) have been pulling out — they have pulled out over Rs 40,000 crore from Indian equities since November 22, putting pressure on the benchmark indices.
However, domestic institutional in- vestors (DIIs) have been buying — and have invested a net of over Rs 48,900 crore dur- ing the same period.
If equity markets are impacted by FPI outflows, a hike in interest rates in India may reduce the pace of money deployment by retail investors in domestic equities, and see some reallocation from equity to debt.
Equities outlook Some market experts feel that while in-
terest rates may go up in 2022, inflation will not be much ofa worry in India. There is ex- pectation that equities may do well if Omicron does not cause a major disruption, and domestic retail flow into equities re- mains stronger than FPI outflows.
"Investors will have to moderate their expectations of returns from equities in 2022. It is a fair value market. If Omicron does not cause big disruption, domestic re- tail inflows remain stronger than FPI out- flows, and corporate earnings remain strong, then it will outperform other asset classes," Nilesh Shah, MD, Kotak Mahindra AMG, said.
George of Geojit pointed out that while interest rate hikes in developed markets will put some pressure on domestic equities as FPIs will pull out money, even domestic rate hikes will see a decline in money flows into equities from retail investors.
Debt market
Yields on government securities have started hardening, rising from the recent low of 6.1 per cent on September 22 to 6.4 per cent on Thursday. While the RBI has deviated from central banks in developed countries and argued for the need to maintain an ac- commodative stance, the market is pushing

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: NEW IN THE NEW YEAR 2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: TECHNOLOGY

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.82]: CALENDAR 2022 JAN 5-8: CES 2022
EARLY FEB: Samsung Unpacked 2022
END FEB: Mobile World Congress APRIL: Apple Spring event JUNE: WWDC 2022
MAY: Google I/0 2022; Microsoft Build 2022
JUNE: Computex 2022:
SEPTEMBER: iPhone event;
Amazon hardware event OCTOBER: Microsoft Surface event; Google Pixel event
NOVEMBER: Apple iPad event
Internet, a more immersive, experiential vi- sion of the web.
While the metaverse is still more meta and less verse, where 5G technology could make significant impact will be in sectors like automobiles and medicines. For instance, 5G will enable more intelligence in connected vehicles, allowing them to make split-sec- ond decisions based on what they are seeing and sensing in real time. If 4G helped mil- lions get remote health consultations during the pandemic, in a 5G world they may be able to get operated on by a doctor sitting in some other part of the world. Even if that does not happen, 5G will enable real-time analysis of complex health data to advise those who don’t have access to the best tech or experts in the field.
A hybrid workforce
Across the world, a lot of people are back
interest rates higher in anticipation of the ris- ing cost of capital. The largest state-owned lender, State Bank of India, increased the base rate by 10 basis points to 7.55 per cent per an- num earlier this month -- an indication that the era of low rates may be over.
Movements in yields, which depend on trends in interest rates, can result in capital gains or losses for investors. If an individual holds a bond carrying a yield of 6%, arise in bond yields in the market will bring the price of the bond down. On the other hand, a drop in bond yield below 6% will benefit the in- vestor as the price of the bond will rise, gen- erating capital gains. Investors in fixed de- posits can opt to keep the tenure lower in order to capture higher rates going forward.
Rising yields also have implications for home loans. Floating rates may rise, as banks try to pass on any increase in costs to customers.
Gold has corrected from the peak of around $2,120 per ounce in August 2020 to around $1,800. Gold is expected to stay pos- itive going ahead, and gain momentum in case it closes above $1,850 on expectations of rising interest rates and inflation.
Geopolitics potential As the confrontation between China
New Delhi
Gettylmages
at work with signs of the pandemic easing at one point, and also because of an accept- ance that you might as well live with Covid- 19 than try to stay away from it. This has posed new challenges for everyone from de- vice manufactures to IT administrators of companies. A hybrid workforce, shuttling be- tween home and office, is not as easy to man- age as one that is restricted to either environ- ment. This will mean the software that helped us stay connected from home will evolve to cater to this new work model, even as new products will be spawned to solve specific problems such as keeping devices and data secure while the networks they work on change.
This is bound to make the traditional net- work security model obsolete and prompt companies to look at decentralised models based on access points and individuals.
Companies will also have to evolve and op- timise for a model that might make their present office infrastructure redundant for the near future.
More power to consumers
Over the past few years consumers of personal technology devices have been used to getting better features and lower prices.
But all that might go for a toss if the present scarcity of processors continues. Already prices of everything from budget smart- phones to automobiles are going up because of the chip shortage, and the situation is un- likely to improve at least in the first half of 2022 when supply is expected to again catch up with demand.
But things are not all that bad. Across product ranges, features that once used to be premium are now becoming more accessible to regular users. Ifin 2021 we saw technolo- gies like noise cancellation, high-refresh rate screens and fast charging come down to more affordable price points, in the new year expect to see the foldable form factor be- come more mainstream because of lower price points. Similarly, adaptive refresh rates, wireless charging and 5G will be common in mid-range, and maybe even budget phones will be so by the end of the new year.
and the West escalates, India could be a beneficiary of foreign direct investments from the US and Europe, market experts feel.
International manufacturing firms have started to look towards India as they seek to diversify production away from China, and several private equity investors and venture capital funds have increased their investments in India.
However, India will have to work hard on requirements of policy, skill development, and regulation, in order to attract these in- vestments.
Former chief economic advisor Arvind Subramanian wrote in a recent article in Foreign Affairs magazine that while “India has made impressive recent progress in building the 'hardware' of economic success... the country continues to struggle to fix its ‘soft- ware’, the crucial economic framework un- der which domestic entrepreneurs and for- eign firms must operate”.
“Policies are changed abruptly; rules are altered to favour certain firms. As a result, domestic entrepreneurs and foreign com- panies have been reluctant to undertake the investments needed to exploit India’s rap- idly advancing hardware,” Subramanian wrote.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 14 CLASSIFIEDS & TENDERS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021
Classifieds

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: PERSONAL
| Ganga Preethy Subramaniyan D/o Sh. Subramaniyan W/o Sh.
Sudhir Viswanathan R/o 23, Bank Apartment, Plot No.22, Sector-4, Dwarka, South West Delhi, Delhi-110075 have changed my name to Preethy Sudhir Viswanathan for all purposes. 0040597628-3
| Bansi Verma S/o Ram Anand R/o 4785, Ahata Kidara, Pahari Dhiraj, Delhi-110006 have changed my name to Bansi Lal
0040597710-1
| Babi Ram Kaur D/o Late Saran Singh R/o UC-27/A, Usha Park, Jail Road, Hari Nagar, Delhi- 110064 have changed my name to Babyram Kaur for all purposes. 0040597628-2
| Arji Singh S/o Amar Singh R/o UC-27/A, Usha Park, Jail Road, Hari Nagar, Delhi-110064 have changed my name to Harjeet Singh for all purposes.
0040597628-1
| Anil Ray Resident Of Smq 92/02 Air Force Station Chandinagar ,Baghpat (UP)-250615 Have Changed My Daughter’s Name From Aradhya Ray To Aaradhya Ray Vide Affidavit No.In- UP78493996443584T DTD 23 DEC 21 Before Ghaziabad court.
0050189566-1
| Vikash Soni,S/O Mukesh Soni,R/O, 1/5126,Durga-Niwas Street.No-4,Balbir-Nagar Shahdara,Delhi-110032,have changed my name to VIKAS SONI. 0040597751-5
1,Shallu Dudeja W/o Saksham Arora,R/o 11/2-A,Double- Storey, Prem-Nagar, Janakpuri,Delhi-110058,have changed my name after- marriage as Taishaa,all future Purposes. 0040597759-2
Itis for general information that |,Rehana Khan,W/o-Mohd.
Shoyab Khan,R/o-S-58/10, Gali.No.24,S-Block, Brahampuri,Delhi-110053, declare that name of mine has been wrongly-written as Rehana in my minor son Zaib Waris Khan(14Years)T.C. and Schlool-Record.The actual- name of mine is Rehana Khan,which May be amended accordingly. 0040597739-10
|,hitherto known as CHIRAG,S/o- SATBIR SINGH YADAV, residing, PLOT.NO.41,FORTH/F,B1 EXTNENSION.SEWAK PARK, UTTAM-NAGAR, D.K.MOHAN- GARDEN, WEST-DELHI,DELHI- 110059,have changed my name and shall hereafter be known as CHIRAG YADAV.
0040597748-4
1,Yatin Grover,S/o Sh.Harish Kumar R/o-468/4,Ram-Nagar, Near Shiv Mandir, Gurugram, Haryana-122001.That Yatin & Yatin Grover are one and same person. 0040597751-9
I, VANDANA,W/O.BIJENDER KUMAR SINGH, FLAT.NO-P096, TOWER-L,14TH AVENUE,GAUR CITY-2 GREATER NOIDA, GAUTAMBUDH-NAGAR U.P- 201308. Changed my name to BANDANA SINGH, permanently.
0040597739-1
|, Tarannum Naz,aged 40 years, D/o-Mohd Saieed,R/o-H.No- 256,DDA Quarters,New Seema Puri,hereby declares that,l am amother of Mohammed Zidane,Student of St Lawrance Public School, Dilshad garden.
0040597729-2
|, Tamanna Abbot,W/o Sidharth Mohanty R/o-J-5/101H, Rajouri- Garden, Delhi-110027,have changed my name to Tamanna Mohanty. 0040597759-3
|,Sonal Sharma,D/o-Vidya prakash Sharma,W/o-Nitin Rastogi,R/o-D-474, S/F, Gali.No.11,Bhajanpura,Delhi- 110053,Have Changed My Name To Shilpa Rastogi.Sonal Sharma And Shilpa Rastogi is One And The Same Person.
0040597739-4
|,Sandeep Kumar S/o Sanjay R/o-H.No:-F-1/218, Sangam Vihar,Delhi-110080,have changed my name from Sandeep Taank to Sandeep Kumar and father’s name,from Sanjay Taanik to Sanjay for all,future purposes.
0040597740-4
|,Rajjat Vijay Agarwal R/o C-37, Sector-26, Noida(U.P) have changed my daughter’s name from Saanvi Agarwal to Saanavvi Agarwaal for all purposes. 0040597714-1
|,Rajeev Arora,S/O Lal Mohan Arora R/O,1431,1st-Floor Outram-Lines G.T.B-Nagar Delhi-110009,have changed my name to Rajeev Kumar Arora.
0040597751-2
1,Prabhneet Singh Anand,S/O Mandip Singh R/O,A-104, Second-Floor,Ganesh-Nagar Tilak-Nagar,Delhi-110018,have changed my name to Prabhneet Singh. 40597751-3
|,Parmod S/o-Kaptan Singh, R/o- House.No-F-120, Gali No-4, Jaitpur Ext. Part-2, Badarpur, New Delhi-110044,Have Change my,name to Pramod Chauhan and both are same person.
0040597751-8
I,Nandini Bhardwaj,D/o- Ombir Bhardwaj,H.no-1217, Sector-46, Gurgaon Haryana 122002, Changed my name to Nandiyini Bhardwaj. 0040597751-1
Il, ISHWAR CHAND SHARMA, S/O JATASHANKAR JHA, R/o- Navkarhi, Naokarhi, Madhubani, Bihar,have changed my name to ISHWAR CHAND JHA. 0040597693-9
1,Pooja Agarwal w/o Vinay Surya R/o-36/78 West Punjabi,New Delhi-110026,have changed my name to Puja Surya,for all purposes. 0040597739-5 T, MOHAMMED AMAANS/O—— MOHAMMED SULEMAN R/O P 48/1 GALI NO-5 BATLA HOUSE JAMIA NAGAR N.DELHI 110025 IN MY PASSPORT MY NAME SPELING IS WRONGLY MENTION MOHD AAMAN BUT MY CORRECT SPELINGIS MOHAMMED AMAAN.
0040597587-6
I,NEERU KUMARI,W/O LALIT KUMAR SHUKLA,R/o.Flat-1205, Tower-C,Antriksh Golf-View- 1,Sector-78,Noida,Gautam Budh-Nagar(UP)have changed my name to NEERU KUMARI SHUKLA. 0040597739-9
I, Vinod Kumar Chadha S/O-Late Shri.Chander Bhan Chadha R/O-H.No.347, First-Floor, Sector-5, Gurugram, Haryana- 122001,have changed my,name to Vinod Chadha for all,future purpose. 0040596505-8
I,Neha Mishra,D/o-Sh.Vinod Kumar Mishra,R/o-D-63-B, Ishwar-Colony,Arjun Park, Najafgarh,New-Delhi-110043.| am also known as Neha and my Aadhar-Card my name is mentioned Neha Mishra.Neha and Neha Mishra is one and the same person. 0040597739-6
I,Narendra Verma,S/o Dalbir Singh Verma,R/o Flat.No.221, SFS-Flat,GH-13 Paschim-Vihar Delhi-110087,changed my minor daughter’s name Priyadarshni Vermato Priyadarshini Verma.
0040597739-8
I,Manjit Singh S/o-Ajit Singh R/o:K-45,Gali.No-13, Krishna Park Extn.Tilaknagar, New Delhi-18,Have Changed My Name to Manjeet Singh.
0040597740-2
I,MOHAMMAD Shahid,S/O mohd. Yaqoob khan,R/o-1383 Gali.no.15, Gandhi-Nagar new- Mustafabad delhi-110094,have Changed my name to Mohd Shahid khan, for all purposes.
0040597751-6
I, Simon Kaur Kumra,D/O Satinder Pal Singh, R/O T-139, Shukkar Bazar, Uttam Nagar, New-Delhi-110059,Have Changed my Name to Simone Kaur. 0040597748-2
Il, Satnam Singh Randhava,S/o Jeevan Singh Randhava, R/o.RZD-18A,Gali.No.5, Mahavir-Enclave, South-West Delhi-110045,have changed my name to Satnam Singh Randhawa. 0040597693-1
I, Sameem S/o Mustafa, R/o-155, Vill.-Talhedi Buzurg, P.S.
Deoband Saharanpur-247554, U.P. have changed my name to Shamim. 0040597693-8
I, Aisha Sachdeva w/o Deepak Sachdeva, R/o 3/88, Block-3, First Floor, Ramesh Nagar, New Delhi-110015 have changed my name to Anmol Rattan, for all purpose.
0040597666-1
I, Abhishek, S/o Anil Kumar, R/o
HNo-78, Vaid Panna, Mundhela Kalan, South West Delhi- 110073. Declare that Name of My Father has been wrongly written as Anil in my Educational Documents. The actual name of My Father is Anil Kumar, which may be amended accordingly.
0070767125-1
I, Sahed Ahamed S/o Chand R/o- E-136, Welcome, Seelampur, Delhi-110053, have changed my name to Saeed Ahmed.
0040597693-7
Il, Sachin, S/O-Shri Ram Niwas
Goyal, R/O-143, Neelgiri Appartment,Sector-9,Rohini, Delhi-110085,have changed my name to Sachin Goyal for all future Purposes. 0040597729-1
I, SUNIL VERMA,S/O VED PRAKASH VERMA R/o-X/1808, PARK-MARG, GALI.NO- 12,RAJGARH-COLONY,GANDHI NAGAR, DELHI-110031,have changed my name to SUNIL KUMAR VERMA. _0040597748-3
I], Roma Saggu,W/o Gagandeep Singh R/o.C-4/1, Jeewan-Jyoti- Apartment Saraswati-Vihar, PitamPura, Delhi-110034, have changed my name to Roma Kaur. 0040597693-3
I, Raman Deep Arora, S/o Manjit Singh, R/o A-501, Ridgeview-IFS Society, Sector-54, Gurugram(Haryana),have changed my name to Robin Arora.
0040597693-2
I, RAM PRASAD, R/o- 269A, T/F, Arjun Nagar, Safdarjung Enclave, Delhi-110029, have changed my son’s name from KUMAR SUDERSHAN to KUMAR SIDDHARTH SUDERSHAN, for all future purposes.
0040597751-7
I,Kapil Arora S/o Ashok Kumar Arora,R/o 11/2-A, Double- Storey, Prem-Nagar, Janakpuri, Delhi-110058,have changed my name to Kapil,for all,future Purposes. 0040597759-1
I,Jugdish Kaur,W/O Surinder Singh,R/O, Village-Mallian Pakkian,Dehriwala Gurdaspur, Punjab-143518,have changed my name to Gurdish Kaur.
0040597751-4
I,Hitherto known as Mohammad Arif,S/o Mohammad Yaseen,R/o-H.N.114, Asara-1, Baghpat, U.P.-250623, Have changed my name and shall hereafter be known as Arif Chaudhary. 0040597739-3
I,JAGAT SINGH S/O.RAJKUMAR SINGH R/o.E-3/1201AA,12th- Floor,Bharat City Indraprastha Yojna,Loni,Ghaziabad,UP- 201102,inform that,my father name-written in my.PAN and Aadhar as RAJKUMAR SINGH and in my.Educational- Certificate as RAJKUMAR.Both are one and,the same person.
0040597751-10
|,Gaganpreet Singh S/o- Gurcharan Pal Singh Kocher R/o-:J-200,U.G.F.,LIC Colony, Paschim Vihar, New Delhi- 87,Have Changed My Name to Gaganpreet Singh Kocher.
0040597740-3
I,Bhim Sain alias Bhim Sen,S/o Ramashwer Dass R/o-869 Sector-37 Faridabad Haryana- 121003,changed my name to Bhim Sain Mittal, permanently.
0040597739-7
I,BIJENDRA SINGH,S/O.KRISHNA DEV PRASAD SINGH,ADD- FLAT.NO- P096,TOWER-L,14TH- AVENUE, GAUR-CITY-2 GREATER NOIDA,GAUTAMBUDH-NAGAR, U.P-201308.Changed my name to BENDER KUMAR SINGH.
Permanently. 0040597739-2
l,Amarjit Kaur W/o-Manjeet Singh R/o:K-45,Gali.No-13, Krishna Park Extn.Tilaknagar, New Delhi-18,Have Changed My Name to Amarjeet Kaur.
0040597740-1
1,Amar Singh S/o Shri Radhey Shyam R/o-N-659, Sector-8, R.K.
Puram, South-West Delhi, Delhi-110022 have changed my name to Amar Singh Meena for all purposes. 0040597676-1
I, khushboo kakwani, w/o Tarun bajaj. Add-G-18/31,3rd floor,sec-15,Rohini, Delhi,have changed my name to Sakshi bajaj. 0040597693-5
I, Vinod Kumar S/o Shri Shishpal R/o H.No.30, Gali No.1, Near Hanuman Mandir, Mandoli Road, Chander Lok Shahdara, Delhi-110093 have changed my name as Vinod Kumar Verma forallpurposes. 0040597661-1
I, Vineet Kumar S/o Sarda Ram resident of H.NO. 174, Ali Ganj, Kotla Mubarak Pur, New Delhi- 110003, have changed my name to Vineet Baisoya for all purposes. 0040597667-1
I, Tithi Agrawal,D/o Kameshwar Nath Urf Agarwal, W/o-Mr.
Mohit Goyal, R/o-Tower-A5, Flat.No.604,Tulip-White, Sector- 69, Badshahpur,Gurugram (Haryana)-122101,have changed my name to Tithi Agarwal. 0040597693-4
I, Sonika, D/o Narain Singh, R/o 701-A-2, Tulip ACE Appt, Pataudi Road, Sector-89, Gurgaon, Haryana-122505, have changed my name from Sonika to Sonika Yadav.
0070767129-1
I, Simran W/O Shri Bhupinder Singh R/O H-3/106, Sector-16, Rohini, Delhi-110089, have changed my name to Simran Singh. 0040597748-11
I, Prakshal Jain, S/o Sanjay Kumar Jain, R/o P-24, Vardhman Green Park Colony, Ashoka Garden, Huzur, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh- 462023.
Declare that Name of My Father has been wrongly written as Sanjay Jain in my School Records, 10th Class Certificate No- S.No. SSE/2018/ 0329484/ Roll No.-1207481. The actual name of My Father is Sanjay Kumar Jain, which may be amended accordingly.
0070767128-1
l,Om Parkash Sharma,S/o
Gurdial Chand Sharma, R/o- 143,Hari-Nagar Ashram, Mathura-Road, Delhi- 110014,have changed my name to Om Prakash Sharma.
0040597748-1
I, Nikhil Kumar Patel, S/o Jay
Krishna Patel, R/o At- Badabazar, Saheb Bunglow, Sameleswari Mandir, Sadar, Sambalpur, Odisha-768003, have changed my name and shall hereafter be known as Nikkhil Kumar Patel.
0070767127-1
Il, Naresh Kumar S/o Raj Kumar Arora, R/o 55/11, Ground Floor, Ashok Nagar, New Delhi-110018 have changed my name Naresh Kumar to Naresh Kumar Arora for all purpose.
Naresh Kumar & Naresh Kumar Arorais one andthe same person. 0040597664-1
I, M. Samsad,S/o MD Israil R/o G- 708, Shakurpur J.J.Colony Delhi-110034,Will Be Known As Mohammad Shamse Alam For Future Purposes.
0040597748-5
I, IMRAN ULLAH KHAN R/o-202, Green Ville(T8),NRI City- 1,Greater Noida, G.B.Nagar- 201310,have changed my minor son name,from ALI KHAN to ALI KHAAN. 0040597693-10
I, Gautam Singh, S/o Gabar Singh, R/o WZ-513/B, Basal Darapur, Ramesh Nagar, West Delhi-110015, Declare that name of Mine and My Wife has been wrongly written as Gautam Rawat and Priyanka Rawat in my minor SonOm Rawat, aged about 2 Years, In his Birth Certificate No- MCDOLIR-0119-007310550. The actual name of Mine and My Wife are Gautam Singh and Priyanka, which may be amended accordingly.
0070767126-1
I, Garima, W/o Rupak Kumar, R/o K-2303, Ace City, Sector-1, Greater Noida West, UP-201306, have changed my name to Garima Nalwa. | should be referred as Garima Nalwa for all future purposes.
0070767162-1
|, Damini, D/o Mahender Pal Singh, R/o B-57, Patel Garden, Kakrola, Dwarka Mor, New Delhi-110078, have changed my name to Damini Hoon.
0070767104-1
Il, Anurag Paswan, S/o Ghanshyam Paswan, R/o Beilia, Maharajganj, Uttar Pradesh- 273303, have changed my name and shall hereafter be known as Anurag Anant.
0070767136-1
Il, Rahis Ahamad, S/o Saeed Ahmed R/o-E-136, Welcome, Seelampur, Delhi-110053,have changed my name to Rahis Ahmed. 0040597693-6
I, Ankita, D/o Mahender Pal Singh, R/o B-57, Patel Garden, Kakrola, Dwarka Mor, South West Delhi, New Delhi-110078, have changed my name to Ankita Hoon. 0070767102-1
1Sri Devi Gunda W/O, Hanumantha Rao Bonala R/o D- 49/29, Dilshad Colony, Delhi- 110095 have changed my name to Sri Devi Bonala for all purposes.
0040597726-1
| Rinki Verma W/o Bansi Lal R/o 4785, Ahata Kidara, Pahari Dhiraj, Delhi-110006 have changed my name to Rinki
0040597708-1
| Ravi Kankani S/o Goverdhan Das Kankani R/o 222-223, N- Block, Kidwai Nagar, Kanpur U.P., have changed my name to Ravi Prakash Kankani
0040597626-1
IKanchan Kumari Alakh W/O Vinod Kumar R/O flat No.457,Metro View Apartment ,Dda Flats,Pocket-B,Phase- 1,Sector-13,Dwarka,Delhi 110078. Have Changed My Name To Kanchan Infuture For All Purposes.Vide Affidevit Dtd.27/12/2021 At Delhi
0050189568-1
|Gurmeet Kaur W/O Balvinder Singh R/O Shop At Plot No. 5, K- Block,Pipal Chowk,Mohan Garden,Uttam Nagar,Delhi 110059. Have Changed My Name To Santosh Kaur Infuture For All Purposes.Vide Affidevit Dtd.27/12/2021 At Delhi
0050189570-1

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: LOST & FOUND
Lost 2 Bajaj finance Reposition kit bearing numbers (GSPEC508265 & PGYEC520873).
FIR is lodged in this case no-LR No:1122746/2021.
0040597729-3
Original GPA, SPA, ATS and WILL dated 10.10.2011, excuted by Ujager Singh in favour of Smt.
Suman Sahani, Amarjeet Kaur and Smt.Sarojini Khanna, all original documents has been lost and mutation Letter issued by concern authority in favour of Smt.kamlesh.
0040597682-1
1, Mohammad Sabir, S/o- Abdul Rehman would like to inform that all my documents, (10th to LL.M), including my LL.M marksheets and degree issued by Jamia Millia lslamia university in the year on July- 2018, bearing Roll No.
16MLWO003 and Enrollment No.16-3257, has been stolen on 14.07.2021. If found please contact on Mobile No.
9555725017 and Address 9/14, Dauble Storey, Vijay Nagar, Delhi-110009. 0040597748-6

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: PUBLIC NOTICE
General public is hereby informed that my client Sh. Rajkumar S/o Late Sh.
Murari Lal R/o H.No WZ 1392, 3rd Floor, Multani Mohalla, Rani Bagh, Delhi-110034 have served all their relations with their son Bhavay due to his bad habits. My above named client have disowned and debarred his said
not be responsible for any act, deed or
dealing done by Sh.Bhavay.
Sd/- PRANAV ARORA (ADVOCATE) D-3327/2020 3279, FF, PUSA SIDE, SOUTH PATEL NAGAR DELHI-110008
PUBLIC NOTICE General Public is hereby informed that my Clients Shri Raj Kumar Singh and his wife Smt Chhaya Singh, R/o House No.256, KH. No. 104/24, Second Floor, Gali No. 6, Block-C, Parvatiya Aanchal, Sant Nagar, Gram Burari, Delhi-110084 have served all their relations with their son Aman Kumar Singh and his wife Ankita Singh due to their misbehaviour and harassment.
Both my above named Clients have disowned and debarred their said son Aman Kumar Singh from all their movable and immovable properties. Anybody dealing or keeping any relationship with Aman Kumar Singh and his wife Ankita Singh will do so at his/her/their own risk and responsibilities and my clients will not be responsible for any act, deed or dealing.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: SONIA MADAN (ADVOCATE) DELHI HIGH COURT
BCD No.- D/2409/2005 PH-07827294990

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PUBLIC NOTICE
Notice is hereby given on behalf of my client SH. SUSHIL KUMAR KASERA son of Sh. Sohan Lal Kasera, resident of C-25, Ahinsa Vihar, Sector-9, Rohini, Delhi and others are negotiating with MRS. NEELAM GOEL wife of late Sh. Suresh Goel, resident of D-795, Saraswati Vihar, Pitampura, Delhi-110034 regarding to purchase the Property No.795, in Block-D, land area measuring 191.66 sq.yds., situated at Saraswati Vihar, Pitampura, Delhi, who claims herself to be the sole & absolute owner of the said entire Property.
any person(s)/All person(s) having any claim/demand/interest/right in respect of or against the above said property or any!
part or portion thereof in any manner or by| way of any Agreementto sell or inheritance} or share or sale or transfer or assignment} or private mortgage or gift or exchange or| possession or covenant or easement or| otherwise howsoever, is hereby called upon to bring the same to the knowledge of| the undersigned in writing with all documentary proof(s)/evidence(s) at the} office of the undersigned within fifteen days from the date of publication thereof off the present notice, failing which the| claim/demand of such person(s), if any, shall be treated as null and void; and shall not have any legal and/or any other}
sanctity; and shall be non-binding on my client and the aforesaid proposed transaction of purchase of the said property shall be completed without any reference to any such claim(s)/demand(s).
Parveen Garg (advocate)| Enrol.No.D/713/86, RU - 26, PitamPura, New Delhi - 34, Mobile No. 9810039884

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: PUBLIC NOTICE
To be known to all that my client MOHAN LAL GUPTA S/O LATE SH. RAMESH GUPTA R/O OF B-5/333, SECTOR-8, ROHINI, DELHI-110085 is purchasing ENTIRE BUILT UP PROPERTY NO. C-21, AREA
MEASURING 250 SQ. YDS. SITUATED IN SHARDA PURI, RAMESH NAGAR, NEW DELHI-110015 from SH. BAYANT SINGH S/O LATE S. GURBACHAN SINGH R/O c-18, THIRD FLOOR,
RING ROAD, SHARDA PURI, RAMESH NAGAR, NEW DELHI-110015. In case if any individual/firm/ company/financial institution/bank except LAP from Hero Housing Finance Ltd. claiming any right, interest, having any objection in respect of above said property, he/she/they may write /contact to my client at above address/phone No. 9717292002 within 15 days from the date of publication of this notice.
KAMAL SINGH (Advocate) Enrl. No. D/748/2014
PUBLIC NOTICE My Client Vajeer Singh S/o Desh Raj Rio H.No. 268 Prem Nursary Gopal Nagar A Block Najafgarh New Delhi-110043 has disowned his son Nitesh his wife Ranjna & their children Ansh and Gurvinder from all his moveable and immov- eable properties. My client shall not be responsible in any manner for any Act/Deed done by them. Any person dealing with them shall deal
at his/her own risk and cost.
Advocate- Rajender Prasad CH No.B-146A, Tishazari Court Delhi-54
PUBLIC NOTICE Notice is hereby given to public at large that my _ client .P I N| SINGH NEGI S/O LATE SH. PREM SINGH_ NEGI (O =Q-132,_ MOHAN) UTTAM NAGAR, NEW
cruelty, atrocities committed by them against my client. _ Any person lealing with them shall be doing so at their own risk, cost and consequences. My client
Janak Puri, New Delhi-58

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: PUBLIC NOTICE
MY Client Vegraj Saini son of late Shri Sholu Ram, r/o H.No.54 Kushak No.1 Vill. Qadipur, Delhi has disowned and debarred my son Shri Nikhil Saini and his wife namely Mini Saini d/o Sh. Pardeep Kumar Saini from thedate of publication due to cruel and aggressive behavior from all his moveable and immoveable properties/assets and all service benefits, and my client has severed all his relationship with them because of their violent, cruel, aggressive and abusive conduct towards my client, my client shall not be responsible for all the acts, deeds and things done by them in future.
ATHA SAGAR VERMA ADVOCATE H-104. Shivaji Park, Punjabl Bagh, New Delhi-110026
PUBLIC NOTICE This is to inform the general public that my client ARVIND BHARDWAJ S/o K.S.Bhardwaj R/o Khatauni Khata No.
23, 117, Gram Satkhol, Patti Malli Kutauli, Tehsil & District Nainital is the legal owner of the property- Khatauni (i) Khata No. 23 Khet No. 1316, (ii) Khata No. 117 Khet No, 1317, Gram Satkhol, Patti Malli Kutauli, Tehsil & District Nainital and my clientis in possession of (iii) Khata No. 133 Khet No. 912, 914.
Anybody dealing in any manner with respect to the said properties (including sale-purchase), without the consent of my client will be solely responsible for the risk and consequences.
SARBJEET SINGH BAWA & ASSOCIATES ADVOCATES & LEGAL CONSULTANTS Enrl. No. D-1006/1995 M: 9810498758 Ch no.: 869, Lawyer’s Chamber Block
Saket Distt. Courts, New Delhi-17

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PUBLIC NOTICE
| Mukesh Goyal S/o Budi Lal Goyal R/o, A-135D near Kailash Hospital Sec-27 Noida-201301, | Lost my Omaxe Builder Buyer Agreement and Receipt No 1643732 for Rs.120617/-, & Receipt No. 1643734 for Rs.1310560/- & Receipt No.1626460 for Rs. 25000 of my Flat No.Gopala-2-H- 201 in Omaxe Eternity Vrindavan. If anybody found Pls return back to Mr.
Pradeep, Omaxe Ltd, 7 LSC, Kalkaji, New Delhi Mobile: 9999999849.
PUBLIC NOTICE The public at large is hereby informed that my client Alka Gulati intended to purchase built up property bearing no J-105, Vikas Puri, New Delhi from its owner viz Sh.Praphull Singh Rawat. If anybody is having any objection, claim, interest, dispute for the intended sale transaction, he/she may contact the undersigned with documentary proof sustaining his/her objections within 7 days from the date of this publication, failing which my client will proceed to complete the sale transaction with the above owner as if there are no third party claims/ objections /disputes in respect of the Schedule Property and thereafter no claims/ objections/disputes will be entertained.
Rajan Chutani & Parul Dureja Advocates Office Address: K-27 West Patel Nagar, New Delhi-110008

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: “IMPORTANT”
Whilst care is taken prior to acceptance of advertising copy, it is not possible to verify its contents. The Indian Express (P) Limited cannot be held responsible for such
contents, nor for any loss or damage incurred as a result of transactions with companies,
associations or individuals advertising in its newspapers or Publications. We therefore recommend that readers make necessary inquiries before sending any monies or entering into any agreements with advertisers or otherwise acting on an advertisement in any manner whatsoever.
want usa diet faa
(9% Ua WSR Wales, ART AHR)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: EMPLOYEES' STATE INSURANCE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: CORPORATION
Aa, (Ministry of Labour & Employment,
ES.LC Govt. of India)
wa wai : 21-81-1113 ates 20St/2021-ATT
EAST CENTRAL RAILWAY [43) E-TENDER NOTICE e-tender Notice No. 54 of 2021-22 Open)-Engg/DDU On line (through e-tendering) for the following work is invited by DRM/Engg/ DDU for and on behalf of the President of India from experienced and financially as well as technically sound contractors including those enlisted with the Railway, CPWD, BSNL, MES, PWD and other
public sector undertakings.
Tender No. 33-DDU-DEN-HQ-21-22 1. Name of work with its location :
Augmention of Central Store/DDU Division under ADEN/HQ/DDU.
2. Approx. cost of the work. :
Rs. 5520259.89.
Tender No. 34-DDU-DEN-HQ-21-22 1. Name of work with its location :
Repairing of roof, Child Ward, Mail Ward, Operation Theater and other ancillary work at Divisional Hospital DDU under ADEN/HQ/DDU. 2. Approx. cost of the work. : Rs. 4290466.89 3. Closing Date & time for submission of e-tender :
21.01.2022, Up-to 12:00 hrs. 4 Website particulars of e-tendering :
www.ireps.gov.in
Divisional Railway Manager East Central Railway, Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Division

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PR/01435/DDU/ENGG/T/21-22/40

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: EAST CENTRAL RAILWAY
e-Tender Notice e-Tender is invited on behalf of the President of India for the under mentioned work:- S.No. : 1, Name of the work with its location :
"Composite Work (Civil, Electrical, Mechanical & Telecom) involving Construction of Maintenance shed with elevated pit & Workshop bay shed with pitline jack system with Pre-Engineered Building (PEB), Extension of DEMU Shed.
Landing of Foot Over Bridge and other ancillary buildings (Service building Canteen, Control Room, Time office, Toilet Block, Scrap yard, Electric Sub station, Washing Apron with catwalk etc.), Water supply system, Drainage system, Track works, Road works, Fire fighting works, Dismantling of Existing Shed and Buildings, Electrification and illumination works, Retractable OHE Procurement and commissioning of specified Mechanical Machineries & Plant and other associated Civil, Mechanical, Electrical & Telecommunication works in connection with Setting up maintenance Depot for Trainsets at Shakurbasti, Northern Railway" E-tender No. WPMech Trainsets-SSB- WT-23, 2. Approx. Cost of the work : Rs.
160,78,64,946.85, 3. Earnest money : Rs.
81,89,400.00, 4. Date and time for closing of tender : 21.01.2022 up to 13.00 hrs. 5.
Website particular and notice board location where complete details of tender can be seen and address of the office from where the tender form can be purchased etc.:
Tender can be down loaded from IREPS website www.ireps.gov.in and detailed can be seen from the notice board at Office of CAO/WP, Chamber Bhawan, J.C. Road, Patna-800001 Any e-tenders whichis sent by Post/Courier/ Fax or by hand will not be accepted. All such manual submission of tender even if it is on firm's letter pad or received in time will not be accepted. The above e-tender document along with full information is available on website http://www. ireps.gov.in.
Dy. CME-II/WP
Workshop Project Organization, Patna

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PR/01440/WPO/MECHIT/21-22/52

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: BEFORE DEBTS RECOVERY TRIBUNAL-I, DELHI
4th Floor Jeevan Tara Building Parliament Street, New Delhi-110001
0A/99/2021 CANARA BANK (Erstwihile Syndicate Bank)
Versus M/S HOME ENTERPRISES & ORS To
1. Home Enterprises & Ors.
Through its Partners
Applicant
Defendants
Khasra No. 160, Ist Floor, Near Surya Hotel,
Village Rithala, Delhi-110085
Also At: Defendants-1 E-73, Gali No. 3, Shastri Park, Delhi-110053
Also At:
Khasra No. 206, 207 Ramesh Rana Complex
Village Rithala, Delhi-110085
Also At:
A-96/1, Wazirpur Industrial Area, Delhi-110052
Sh. Padam Jain Defendants-2 Partner of Home Enterprises
S/o Sh. Surendar Kumar Jain,
R/o House No.11, 2nd Floor, Pocket-12, Sector-24, Rohini, Delhi-110085.
Also At:
E-73, Gali No.3, Shastri Park, Delhi-110053
Also At:
Khasra No 206, 207, Ramesh Rana Complex,
Village Rithala, Delhi-110085
Also At:
A-96/1, Wazirpur Industrial Area, Delhi-110052
Smt. Anjali Jain Defendants-3 Partner of home Enterprises
W/o Shri Padam Jain
R/o House No.11, 2nd Floor
Pocket-12, Sector-24, Rohini, Delhi-110085
Also At:
Gali No.3, Shastri Park, Delhi-110053
Also At:
Khasra No. 206,207, Ramesh Rana Complex, Village, Rithala, Delhi-110085
Also At: A-96/1, Wazirpur Industrial Area, Delhi-110052 Whereas the above named applicant has instituted a case for recovery of Rs. 1,12,93,151/- (Rupees One Crore Twelve Lakhs Ninety Three Thousand One Hundred Fifty One Only) against you and whereas it has been shown to the satisfaction of the Tribunal that it is not possible to serve you in ordinary way.
Therefore, this notice is given by advertisement directing you to make appearance before Hon'ble PO on 19.01.2022 at 10.30 A.M. (for further details kindly visit DRT website www.etribunal.gov.in Ph. No.
011-23748473).
Take notice that in case of your failure to appear on the above mentioned day before this Tribunal, the case will be heard and decided in your absence.
Due to ongoing Pandemic Situation, all the matters will be taken up through Video Conferencing and for that purpose:-
(i) All the Advocates/Litigants shall download the "Cisco Webex" application/Software;
(ii) "Meeting ID" and "Password" for the next date of hearing qua cases to be taken by 'Registrar/Recovery Officer-I/ and Recovery Officer-Il shall be available one day perior to the next date at DRT Official Portal i.e.
“drt.gov.in" under the public Notice Head.
(iii) In any exigency qua that, the Advocates/Litigants can contact the concerned official at Ph. No. 011 23748473.
Given under my hand and the seal of this Tribunal on this date : 21st day of December, 2021.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: N
s
By Order of the Tribunal
Assistant Registrar
DRT-1, New Delhi
Respondent may contact under mentioned Phone Number For Further Enquiry.
Mr. Amit K. Dar
Ld. Registrar
DRT-1, New Delhi
Phone No. 011-23748473
E-mail : drt1delhi-dfs@nic.in
Bs;, ata araitat / Regional Office a Wada waa, Walger we, FIMGT-208005 Panchdeep Bhawan, Sarvodaya Nagar, piesa §=Kanpur-208005 RABI) wit 4-0512-2217957 @mere E-Mail: rd-up@esic.nic.in
feta: 29.12.2021
Hat UsT aT silence aa seen We yt
wate (Satatat.) aw fat vat Bat He Fg
ws BR aif
a aaw, We sia Mere, Stat usa car fem, tacky saa SUR, Ret, Misa cat warRnst eat A feat HINT Usa SAT aera aa steers we wT Frater (SAL si.), FIT Sard F tet fered Oe ts Bg Pfaer ada cal ort S| sites Sg SER fa TA Ae ASA THT UAT 1600 Ghar fire cen sitsenera We WaT Hae (SLA. Si.) Sq 2100 wHarn fre, aa yao We
asta 21
at asa sr steerer Saal. st. & wat eer eg aisdta araaeyarevs, GAS aH, Ud, seer Ud sea SAE HHI asa att Fes at SeaMee www.esic.nic.in W Wa Hl Ml Tht s |
aM saw we site freee
ue a} ae Punjab State Power Corporation Limited
Regd Office: PSEB Head Office
, The Mall, Patiala - 147001
CIN: U40109PB2010SGC033813, Website: www.pspcl.in
(Contact No. 96461-17673)
RFP No. 001/2021-22
Dated: 28.12.2021
Sr. XEN/DSM, B-3, Shakti Vihar, PSPCL, Patiala invites Request for Proposal (RFP) for hiring an Agency to Conduct Annual Energy Audit of PSPCL for FY: 2020-21 as per BEE regulation dated 7th
October, 2021. Availability of RFP will be from 04.01.2022 to 14.01.2022.
NOTE: Corrigendum & addendum, if any will be published online at www.pspcl.in.
C-464/21 11946/Pb
Central Public Works Department
Press N
otice
All the contractor(s)/ firm(s)/ agencies intending to bid for works in Central Public Works Department (CPWD) are hereby informed that anew CPWD e-Tender & e-Auction website/ portal is proposed to be made operational soon in a phased manner. All intending bidders
are advised
to check bot
h the existing website
(http:/Awww.tenderwizard.in/CPWD) as well as the new upcoming website for participating in the tenders published on the respective websites till further notice.
To participate in the bidding process for tenders to be hosted on the new website, all intending contractor(s)/ firm(s)/ agencies are requested to register /update their profiles on the new e-Tendering and e-Auction websites https://etender.cpwd.gov.in and https://eauction.cpwd.gov.in respectively. Information on updation of profiles is available on CPWD Website https://www.cpwd.gov.in
vide circular:
https://www.cp
wd.gov.in/WriterReadData/
other_cir/50798.pdf . For any further assistance CPWD Helpdesk Team may be contacted on 0120-6747214/4766312 or
tendersupport@techmahindra.com.
No. F. 1(25-15)SE/SAMAGRA/VOC/2021/2174 Dated 06/12/2021
PRESS NOTICE INVITING e-TENDER
The State Project Director, Samagra Shiksha, Tripura invites e-Tender through
https:/Aripuratenders.gov.in
for
selection of Vocational Training Provider
for
implementation
of Vocational
Education in 70 Govt. schools of Tripura.
Last
date of
Bid
submission:
10.01.2022 till 06:00 pm.
Sd/-
(Chandni Chandran, IAS) SPD, Samagra Shiksha, Tripura

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: ICA/C/3184/21
General Public is hereby informed
that an unidentified dead body of a |
male Namely Unknown S/o
Unknown, R/o Unknown Age: about }
35-40 years, Height: 5'6",
Complexion: Shallow, Face:
Forehead-broad, Built: Thin, Hair:
short, Wearing: Grey pant, Green &
white Sweater and barefoot, was
found dead on 26.12.2021 at about
7.11 AM from Near Shiv Kund, Bara Hindu Rao, Hospital, Delhi. The dead body has been preserved at the Mortuary of Subzi Mandi, Delhi. In this regard a DD No.10A, dated 26.12.2021 u/s 174 Cr.PC has been lodged at P.S. Subzi Mandi, Delhi.
If any one having any clue about deceased male may kindly inform the undersigned and contact on following numbers.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DP/1854/N/2021
Ph.
SHO P.S. Subzi Mandi, Delhi : 011-23823161, 23827354

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE ENGINEER, MINOR IRRIGATION DIVISION, JAMSHEDPUR.831001
Tender Reference No. WRD/MID/JAMSHEDPUR/F,05/2021-22(2™ Call)
e-Procurement Notice
Letter No. : 629
Dated: 29.12.21
Further details can be seen on website http://jharkhandtenders.gov.in
Renovation of Palpala M.I Scheme 1. Name of the work under Block Chakulia of East Singhbhum District.
Rs.170.71 Lakhs. (Rupees One 2. Estimated Cost (Rs.) Crore seventy Lakhs seventy one thousand only) 3. Time of Completion 11 Months Date of Publication of E - Tender on 15.01.2022 4, :
website up to 5.00 pm 5 Last date/Time for submission of 21.01.2022 . Bid Up to 2.00 P.M.
22.01.2022 at 2.30 PM in the office 6. Date of Opening of e-tender of Executive Engineer, M.I.
Division Jamshedpur.
Name & address of office Inviting Executive Engineer, Minor 7. aor ve tender Irrigation Division, Jamshedpur.
@ Contact no. of e-Procurement officer 0657-2232398 (b) E-mail.of e-Procurement officer eemidjam-cemr-jhr@nic.in 9. Helpline number of e-Procurement 0651-2214784 10 Last date of receipt of bid Fee, 21.01.2022 ‘ Security & other documents. Up to 5.00 P.M.
Note :- Only e-Tenders will be accepted.
Minor Irrigation Division, Jamshedpur.
PR 260692 Water Resource(21-22)#D
Executive Engineer,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: NORTH CENTRAL RAILWAY, PRAYAGRAJ
No.:- Dy. CEE/C/NCR/Kanpur/20-21/Tender No.-113 Dated :21.12.200

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: PUBLIC NOTICE
General is informed that co
nstruction of new 132 KV 3
phase double circuit transmission line of Railways from Mitawali TSS to Jalesar City TSS at Prayagraj Division of North Central Railway is in progress, This transmission line left Tower No. AP-1 and left villages Rasool Pur, Mani Gadhi, Balak Bhuj, Nagla Kharga, Rajpur, Niwas Pur, Lal Gadhi, Eta, Salem Pur Nagla, Nagla Andu, Gutaila, Nagla Gewar Dhan, Goda Ka Nagla, Nagla Ki Bari, Majua, Jataua, Kharkana, Nagla Mahar Singh, Hathipur Ki Gadhi, Nagla Ishpur, Kushalpur, Abhi Murthar, Jaganpur, Chandrabhan Nagla, Nagla Madhu, Nagla Daya, Opal Ki Gadhi, Bapu Ki Gadhi, Tkhawan, Om Nagar, Jalupai Ki Gadhi, Kashi Pur, Til Ka Nagla, Nagla Chaturi, Raj Pura, Kosna and Asgarh village are getting tower no AP-53. The area is under Tehsil and District Eta Uttar Pradesh, the construction of this transmission line provides for proper compensation to farmers, land owners for the damage caused to Crops, Trees.
Construction of this trans
mission line is sponsored
under the scheme of Ministry of Railways, Government of India, New Delhi.
4367/21 (P) Fi North central railway _ www.ncr.indianrailways.gov.in
New Delhi
(Vivek Gupta)
Sr. Elect. Engineer/Const.
For Dy. Chief Elect. Engineer/Const./
North C
entral Railway, Kanpur ["] @ CPRONCR
HIMACHAL PRADESH PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT e-Procurement Notice

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: INVITATION FOR BIDS (I

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: FB)
The Executive Engineer, Shimla, Division No. I, HPPWD, Shimla-3, H.P on behalf of Governor of H.P invites the item rate bids, in electronic tendering system from the eligible class of contractors registered with HPPWD for the works as detailed in the
table.
Name of Work
Construction of road from Bhattakufer to IGMC
Estimated Cost.
Starting date
for
downloading
34612471/- 1
Phase-ll km. 0/700 to 2/400 in District Shimla (HP) (SH;- F/C, C/O R/wall , B/Wall , Hume pipe Culvert , P/L GSB ,G-I,G-II,G-III, 50mm thick BM,
30mm thick BC, C/O V-Shape parapets etc).
drain, PCC
9-01-2022
Earnest fe Money Bid
693000/-
Time Allowed
Deadline
The bidders are advised to note other details of tenders from the department website www.hptender.gov.in
The executive Engineer reserves the right to accept/reject any tender/application or all tenders without assigning any reason.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 5942/HP

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DELHI- 110005

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DELHI JAL BOARD: GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI OFFICE OF THE ADDL. CHIEF ENGINEER (M) - 5 ROOM NO. 312, VARUNALAYA PHASE-I JHANDEWALAN,
Ce ee

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: NORTHERN RAILWAY
TENDER NOTICE No. 74-W/2/3/WA/Publication DATED: 29.12.2021
SRDEN/I/MB acting for and on behalf of The President of India invites E-Tenders against following tenders closing date 13.01.2022 16:00. Bidders will be able to submit their original/revised bids upto closing date and time only. Manual offers are not allowed against this tender and any such manual offer received shall be ignored.
Contractors are allowed to make payments against this tender towards tender document cost and earnest money only through online payment modes available on IREPS portal like net banking, debit card, credit card etc. Manual payments through Demand draft, Banker's cheque, Deposit receipts, FDR etc. are not allowed.
Tender No. Date 171-DRM-MB-21-22 Date - 29.12.2021
Name of work Improvement / upgradation of L-xing road surface by providing Rubberised surface at various LCs in MB Division. (2” time) 13.01.2022 16:00
Tender Closing Date Time
Tender
Refundable)
(Non-
Tender /Tender Id.
Advertised Value (Rs.) 8502429.00 PRESS NIT_No. 17 (2021-22) M-5 Bidding Start Date 29/12/2021 Name of Work Amount put to | E/Money (EMD) Tender Fee Date of release of Last date/ time of Validity of Offer (Days) 20 Days
receipt of tender
Providing / Laying additional 600 mm dia NP4 RCC- HDPE lining pipe by Micro Tunneling from Majnu Ka Tila to Aruna Nagar SPS under AEE(M)-20.
2 6,52,44,152/-
2 13,04,883/-
1500/-
Dt. 29.12.2021 2021_DJB_213709_1
24.01.2022 Upto 3.00 PM
Further details in this regard can be seen at https://govtprocurement.delhi.gov.in
ISSUED BY P.R.O. (WATER) Advt. No. J.S.V. 922(2021-22)
Sd/- (P.C. Sharma)
Asst. Executive Engineer (T)M-5
“STOP CORONA: Wear Mask, Follow Physical Distancing and Maintain Hand Hygiene”

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: JAL SHAKTI, PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEERING, DEPARTMENT

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: NOTICE INVITING TENDER
e-NIT No. 118 OF 2021-22 Dated: 28.12.2021 For and on behalf of Lt. Governor of UT of J&K, Chief Engineer Jal Shakti (PHE) Department, Kashmir/Jammu invites e-tenders from reputed
and resourceful Contractors/ Firms/Companies/Joint Ven

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: S
ure of all classes registered in JKPWD/CPWD/Railways or any other state
Government for “Empanelment of Eligible Contractors at Provincial Level and fixing of item rates for HILLY AREAS (GRAVITY) falling in District (JJM) works costing Above 3 crores up to 10 crores and above (GROUP V)”, details of which
Baramulla for Execution of Jal Jeevan Mission
are given below. The bidding process shall be completed on!
earnest money, General Terms and Conditions and Technical Specifications. Cover ‘2nd’ shall consist of
ine in two covers viz. Cover 1st consisting of Pre-Qualification Bidding, tender fee,
Financial Bid in the prescribed BOQ.
Sr.
No.
Particulars of the work
Estimated Cost (Lacs)
Cost of Document/Tender Fee (in Rs.)
Bid Validity
Time of Money Completion of (Lacs) Work (Days)
Earnest
1 2
3
4
5 6 7
Jeevan Mission (JJM) works. These broadly consisting of:
reservoir, Overhead tanks, laying tion mains.
at various Water Supply Schemes
1. | Empanelment of eligible contractors at Provincial level and fixing of item rates for each district/geo- graphically different zone for execution of Jal
a. Construction of water supply schemes by way of filtration plants, pump houses, service
. Retrofitting of electro-mechanical equipment’s
Work/Scheme wise details given in Section-ll of tender document
works are
of distribu-
1000/-
Group-V
Above 3 Crores upto 10 Crores & above
Position of funds: Approved Under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM)
The tender inviting authority is Chief Engineer, Kashmir/Jammu Jal Shak The awarding authority is District Jal Jeevan Mission (DJJM).
i (PHE) Department.
Note: In view of the fact, that this NIT for item rate contract has been framed for the first time in the Department, a helpdesk shall be established at the Direction office level as well as district level for encouraging and facilitating the intending bidders for participation in the instant NIT to ensure wide participation across all the Districts.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: KEY/CRITICAL DATES:

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PUBLISH DATE
29.12.2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DOCUMENT DOWNLOAD/SALE START DATE
29.12.2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CLARIFICATION START DATE
29.12.2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: BID SUBMISSION START DATE
03.01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: CLARIFICATION END DATE
20.01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: PRE-BID MEETING DATE
03.01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DOCUMENT DOWNLOAD/SALE EN!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: D DATE
25.01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: BID SUBMISSION END DATE
25.01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: DATE AND TIME OF BID OPENING
27.01.2022
Bid documents can be assessed at and downloaded from the websites http://jktenders.gov.in The pre-bid meeting will be held in the office chamber of the Chief Engineer, Kashmir/Jammu, PHE Department, through vir-
tual/online mode.
The Bids shall be deposited on the websitehttp://jktenders.gov.in
The complete bidding process will be
online http://jktenders.gov.in.
The Financial bids of the bidders shall be opened online in the office of the Chief Engineer, Kashmir/Jammu, Jal Shakti (PHE)
Department.
Bids must be accompanied by bid security and cost of Tender Document as specified in column 6 & 7 of the table and shall
be payable at Srinagar/Jammu.
a. Bid Security to be pledged in favour of FA/CAO, Kashmir/Jammu, Jal Shakti PHE Department. Bid Security will have to be in form of CDR/ FDR/BG of any scheduled Bank and shall have to be valid for at least one year after last date of sub- mission of Bid. The Bid of bidders having bid security less than as specified above will be rejected.
b. The cost of downloaded tender documents should be in form of DD /TR/e challan in favour of FA/CAO, Kashmir/Jammu,
Jal Shakti (PHE) Department.
The hard copies of cost of tender document in shape of DD/TR/e-challan, Earnest money in shape of CDR/FDR/BG and other relevant documents shall be obtained from the bidder who is declared as L1 after opening of financial cover.
The bid shall remain open for acceptance for a period of 180 days from the date of opening of price bids. If any bidder/ten- derer withdraws his bid/tender before the said period or makes any modifications in the terms and conditions of the bid, the said earnest money shall stand forfeited and the bid shall be declared non-responsive.
Other details can be seen in the bidding documents from the website http://jktenders.gov.in.
10. Queries by email if any should be made at kmrphed@ gmail.com/phecejmu @ gmail.com
Chief Engineer, Kashmir, Jal Shakti, PHE Department.
No: CE/PHE/Kmr/34034-49
Date: 28.12.2021 DIPK-15877

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.87]: ADVERTISEMENT NO : 30373/TRIAL/2023-24/ST-25

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: MG ASC HEADQUARTERS NORTHERN COMMAND UDHAMPUR : SHOWCASING AND DISPLAY OF SPECIAL RATION ITEMS FOR REVISION OF INVENTORY FOR THE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: CY 2023-24
1. Inventory of Special Ration Items (packaged food products) in respect of Northern Command is being revised for the Consumption Year 2023-24 & onwards.
2. Ashowcasing/display/trial is being organised in two phases by this Headquarters at Udhampur as per details given below:
(a) Phase-l-
Initial Screening of Items wef 01 March 2022 wherein all interested
firms/vendors to submit item details/ catalogue/ product description only along with an application (Application form can be obtained from HQ Northern Command/ 603 ASC Bn (AM), Chandigarh, FSD BD Bari/ FSD Udhampur/ FSD Srinagar/ 497 (I) Comp PI, ASC, Chandigarh) Note : NO SAMPLES TO BE SUBMITTED IN PHASE-|
(b) Phase-ll
-Technical Evaluation of Items will be held at Udhampur at NSOI
tentatively on 09 Apr 2022, wherein samples (five) of items screened
in Phase-I only will be called for evaluation. Confirmed dates will be
intimated later.
(c) The List of Items is as under:
Soups
Juices
Tomato Puree
Tomato Soup
100% Apple Juice
Tomato Ketchup
Chicken Soup
100% Orange Juice
Semiyan
Guava Juice
Ready to Eat Dal Makhani
Tea CTC
Mango Juice
Paneel Ready Made
Kahwa Tea
Coconut Water
Roasted Pista Giri
dles
Pineapple Orange Fruit Drink
Ground Nut Salted
Noodles Veg
Mango Fruit Drink
Honey
(vi) [Non Veg Noodles
Pineapple Fruit Drink
Gulab Jamun
(vii) |Cup Noodles Other
Items
Soya Chunks
Biscuits (xx)
Roasted Ground Nuts
Isabgol Nature Care
(viii)| Cookes Cashew
(xxi)
Chikki Peanut
Pudin Hara Capsules
(ix) |Biscuit Bourbon
(xxii)
Walnut (Vaccum Sealed Kernels)
Tulasi Cap/ Tablets
colates (xxiii)
Eclairs
(xxxix)
Revital
Milk Chocolate (xxiv
Digestive Candy
(XXxxx)
Malted Milk Products
Chocolate Templation
(xi)
(xxv)
Mixed Pickle
Note:- 1.
above.
Preferably the life of ibid items should be best before nine months &
2. Tentatively delivery stations are Chandigarh, Leh & Srinagar.
. Original manufacturers/ authorised managers or managing directors/ authorised C&F agents/ authorised distributors can participate in the above event.
. The above event is on 'no cost no commitment basis' and Headquarters Northern Command reserves the right to reject any item/ firm/ vendors without assigning any
reasons.
. Interested firms/ vendors may submit their item details/ catalogues/ product description in a sealed envelope duly mentioned “SHOWCASING AND DISPLAY OF SPECIAL RATION ITEMS FOR REVISION OF INVENTORY FOR THE CY 2023-24” on the envelop in Tender Box kept at Headquarters Northern Command, Main Gate at reception by 01 March 2022 by 1200 Hrs (no application will be accepted
thereafter).
. Any other detail can be obtained from this office of the Executive authority on any working day between 1100hrs to 1200 hrs on under mentioned details:
- jaynan 569p @gov.in - 01992-242153 & 270714* (Extn 2763) *(Udhampur Exchange Helpline No)
Email address Contact No
(a) (b)
davp 10602/11/0067/2122

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: MG ASC
HQ Northern Command
Period of Completion 2 Months SERVING CUSTOMERS WITH A SMILE
Government of Jharkhand Department of Mines & Geology Directorate of Geology Engineers' Hostel No-2, 2™ floor, Dhurwa, Ranchi-834004
Email: dir-geology@jharkhandmail.gov.in Cancellation
Important Notice Tender No. MSTC/RNC/DEPARTMENT OF MINES AND GEOLOGY/39/19-20/24439 Dated 30.10.2019
e-Auction of Lodhapat, Jobhipat and HethilodhaBauxite Block
In Consonance with Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015 (as amended), the Tender No. MSTC/RNC/DEPARTMENT OF MINES AND GEOLOGY/39/19-20/24439 Dated 30.10.2019 for auction published in different News Papers vide PR.No.- 224530 (Mines and Geology) 20-21 of Lodhapat, Jobhipat and Hethilodha Bauxite Block over an area of 75.198 Ha in Gumla District, Jharkhand for grant of Mining Lease has been annulled. Sd/-
(Vijay Kumar Ojha) Director Geology
PR 260760 Mines and Geology(21-22)D

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: APPEAL FOR IDENTIFICATION
General public is hereby informed that one male namely Unknown, S/o Unknown, R/o Unknown, Age about 25-30 years, Height 5'5", Complexion Shallow, Built Normal, Face Oval, Wearing White colour shirt, dark green colour lower and bare footed was found dead at Seelampur Flyover Under Metro Bridge on 16.08.2021. In this regard a DD No. 64-A date 16.08.2021 has been lodged at PS Seelampur, Delhi.
Any person having any information or clue about this deceased person may kindly inform to the undersigned at the address or telephone nos. given below.
Unknown
SHO PS: Seelampur, Delhi Ph. 011-22562989, 22826006

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.74]: DP/1271/NE/2021
Appeal for Identification
General Public is hereby informed that a male dead person Name:
Unknown, S/o Unknown, R/o:
Unknown, Age: 30/35 years, Height:
5'6", Complexion: Wheatish, Injury Marks: Head Injuries Wearing
Green Shirt, was found dead at K.M.
Pol No. 11/31 Badli Village, Delhi. On 21.03.2014 at 3.30 PM. in Train
Accident. In this regard, a DD No. 18PP, dated
21.03.2014 has been lodged at PS ODRS, Delhi.
Sincere efforts have been made by local police to trace out
information about this person but no clue has come to light so far.
Any, person having any information or clue about this
person may kindly inform to the following. SHO
P.S., Old Delhi Railway
Station, Delhi
Ph. : 011-23961522, 9540360600

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: SEARCH FOR MISSING/KIDNAPPED
General Public is hereby informed that one female Namely: Yashoda, W/o Laxman, R/o: H.No.C-2/142, Nand Nagri, Delhi has been missing/kidnapped since 07.12.2021 from her house from the area of P.S. Nand Nagri, Delhi In this regard a case vide DD No. 33-A dated 08.12.2021 has ashoda been registered at P.S. Nand Nagri, Delhi.
The description of the missing/kidnapped female is as under: Age:
About 32 years, Height: 4’6", Face: Round, Complexion:
Wheatish, Built: Strong, Wearing: White-purple colour suit salwar, and blue colour slipper in her feet. Sincere efforts have been made by local police to trace out the missing female but no clue has come to light so far. Any person having any information or clue about this missing female kindly inform to the following.
Website: http//cbi.nic.in E-mail Id - cic@cbi.gov.in Ph.: 011-24368638, 24368641 Fax No. 011-24368639 DP/1219/NE/2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DP/325/RLY/2021
SHO P.S. Nand Nagri, Delhi Ph.: 011- 22137761, 8750870733
Government of Jharkhand Department of Mines & Geology
Directorate of Geology Engineers' Hostel No-2, 2" floor, Dhurwa, Ranchi-834004
SHORT TENDER NOTICE Short Tender Notice No. 18/2021-22 Directorate of Geology invites sealed tender on plain paper from manufacturers/ authorized agents/ distributors of repute having their registered offices in India for the purchase of Equipments/Items for State Geological Laboratory, Hazaribag as laid down in the Tender
Document
Name of the Department :Directorate of Geology, Department of
Mines & Geology, Jharkhand, Ranchi
1. Name of the advertiser : Director, Geology Department of Mines & Geology Jharkhand, Ranchi
2. Period of Tender Document 30.12.2021 to 17.01.2022
3. Last date and time of receipt of Tender Document 17.01.2022 till 1.00 P.M.
4. Date and time of opening of Tender Document 17.01.2022 at 3.30 PM Place of receipt of Tender Documents: Office of the Director, Geology, Engineers’ Hostel No-2, 2™ Floor, Sector-III, Dhurwa, Ranchi-834004.
5. Place of receipt of Tender Documents: Office of the Director, Geology, Engineers’ Hostel No-2, 2" Floor, Sector-III, Dhurwa, Ranchi-834004.
6. Cost of Tender Documents:
SI Equipment/Items Cost of the Tender No. quip Document (In Rs.) 1 Platinum Crucible 5000.00
7. Cost of tender document:- 5000/- (Rupees Five Thousand Only) It will be submitted online through official website www.
jharkhandminerals.gov.in =—=Other & Services =e Payment == Payment office (Directorate of Geology) = Head of Payment (Cost of Tender Document) = Description =&Type of Depositor (Other) =& District Name (Directorate of Geology) = DDO Code (PRJOTH002) and Tender Document will also available in our Government website www.jharkhand.gov.in
8. Cost of Tender Document is non - refundable. Sd/-
(Vijay Kumar Ojha)
Director, Geology
PR.NO.260701 Mines and Geology(21-22):D

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: MANGALORE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
(A Government of Karnataka undertaking) Corporate Office, “MESCOM BHAVANA”, Bejai, Mangaluru - 575 004 Ph: 0824-2885795 CIN: U40109 KA 2002 SGC 030425
No: MESCOM/SEE(P)/EE(W)/1066 Date: 30.12.2021
TENDER NOTIFICATION (E-Procurement Mode Only)
MESCOM invites tender for Re-conductoring of old deteriorated Weasel conductor by Rabbit conductor of LT circuits of various
capacities of distribution transformers under Stage-1 in Kundapura, Byndoor, Tallur, Shankar Narayana and Kota Sub-divisions of Kundapura Division vide bid enquiry no. MESCOM/2021-22/ EL/ WORK_INDENT1734.
The interested eligible bidders may log on www.eproc.karnataka.gov.in onorafter 31.12.2021.
to
Sd/- Superintending Engineer (Ele.) (Proc.), Corporate Office
For Power Related Complaints & Assistance Call Toll Free Number 1912
ff (a Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj C= MOEA ONAL AIRPORT Request for Qualification and Proposal for International Common User Cargo (including courier) Terminal at Chhatrapati Shivaji Mahargqj International Airport, Mumbai
Mumbai International Airport Limited (“MIAL”) intends to award Concession for “International Common User Cargo (including courier) Terminal" (ICUCT) through a competitive bidding process.
MIAL hereby invites interested parties to participate in the competitive bidding process by submitting an application to MIAL. The application can be downloaded from CSMIA website: https://csmia.adaniairports.com/tenders.aspx
Request for Qualification and Proposal (“RFQP”) document containing land details, eligibility criteria and terms shall be provided to the applicant who submits the application by 10th January, 2022 on payment of cost for issue of RFQP.
Contact details: cargo.csmia@adani.com

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: APPEAL FOR IDENTIFICATION
= General public is hereby informed that a unidentified dead body of a male namely Unknown, S/o: Unknown, R/o: Unknown was found dead on 22.12.2021 at Under Crown Plaza Flyover, Mayur Vihar-l, Exten. Delhi. In this regard DD No. 56 A, dated 22.12.2021 has been lodged at Police Station Mayur Vihar, Delhi. Identification of unidentified dead body of male is as under:
Name: Unknown, Age: About 45 Years, Height: 5'5" (Approx), Face: Round, Built: Medium, Complexion:
Black, Hair: Black, Wearing: Blue, White, Yellow Colour Sweater & Red Colour Nikkar, Identification: Allergy & Burn Injury Like Marks.
If anyone have any information or clue about this male deceased may kindly be inform undersigned. SHO
Police Station Mayur Vihar, Delhi Ph.: 011-22711048, 8750870627

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DP/867/ED/2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE ENGINEER, ROAD CONSTRUCTION DEPARTMENT, ROAD DIVISION, GUMLA
e-Procurement Notice _e-Tender Reference No. RCD/GUMLA/919 Date :- 29.12.2021 Construction of PCC Road & Paver Block in Neterhat Awasiya Vidyalay a (Total Length 2.300 km)
Rs. 2,75,52,900.00 ( Two Crore seventy five lacs fifty two thousand nine hundred) only
1. Name of the work
2. Estimated Cost (Rs.)
3. Time of Completion 03 Months 4. Last date/Time for receipt of 27.01.2022 bids Up to 12:00 Noon 5. Date of Publication of Tender on | 07.01.2022 website From 10:30 A.M.
6. Opening Date of Tender 02.02.2022 12.30 PM
7. Name & address of office Inviting tender
Executive Engineer, Road Construction Department, Road Division, Gumla.
8. Contact no. of e-Procurement 06524-222097 officer 9. Helpline number of e- 0651-2401010
Procurement cell . Tender amount can be increased or decreased.
—
2. Details can be seen on website https://jharkhandtenders.gov.in Sd/- Executive Engineer, Road Construction Department, Road Division, Gumla.
PR 260716 Road(21-22)D

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: WESTERN RAILWAY
DESIGN & ALLIED WORK OF TRACTION SUBSTATION Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer (Construction), Western Railway, 2nd Floor, Substation Building, ‘D’ Road, Churchgate, Mumbai 400 020 invites offer through e-tender portal www.ireps.gov.in for the following tender - Tender No.: EL- C-CCG-2021-22-EPC-01 dated 02/12/2021 Name of Work : Design, Supply, Erection, Testing & Commissioning of 220/132/55 KV Traction Substation, Sectioning post (SPs) and Sub sectioning post (SSPs) (2 x 25 KV System Scott Connected Transformer) of Mumbai - Ratlam and Vadodara - Ahmedabad Sections of Western Railway, under raising of speed up to 160 Kmph on BCT-NDLS route NIT Cost : %305,18,10,190 EMD: %1,52,59,100 Time & Date for submission and opening of e-Tender:
Submission upto 11.00 Hrs. on 01/04/2022 & opening on same date at 11.30 Hrs. The date of tender, terms & conditions and scoope of work are uploaded and are available in electronic format on our website - www.ireps.gov.in.
D-0636 Like us on : [FJ facebook.com/WesternRly
INSTALLATION OF AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE Mo; COPSUT ATEN YI2071 ; lated: 27-
12-2021. Open Sercters ae irratend try the undersigned tor installabon of 57 Nos Aulomated Tellar Machine againal
T Nos. . 88.1. Cl2SATW

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: (8NGN2.SN.3. C/25/ATMI ZMAZA SNE. CSIATMORNY!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.87]: 7020 SNS. CONAIMRNY2021!
GLPT. SH.6. COSTA RNY2021/D0M Ve 7. CEVATMISNY202 KOEN. SN 4.
25/AT My RY 20271OCS SH.8. CS 202 1/NHLN CO. SN.t0.
at KK “1 SM.454, oe J
HAS a SH.18. C25 S/ATM PNV/2021) *RNI SW.419 CraSATMIRNY 2021)
TMIRNY 202") SrA Mn 2

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: SAT ORM YI202 1/LMV PZNAZA SN 25.
era SN2) c SH. 24.¢ CHEAT!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ASAT NTO

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: GON. SH2B DOLE. SW.2%. CY2ATM MATO. SN.30. C2WATM AT RRM!
ATWRNY(2021) SATMURNY/2021) SNE ") PAATRVRN iat? 14 w Sn.37. CS(ATMIRN €/202 KTR 5N.38. C(2S/AT MAAN W202 1/DEIR SN.395. C §N.40.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 5N,41, SN.42 8N.43. ‘ 5.46, CI2S/AT NVANY/200 WOKGN SH45. COSAT WRINY 202 11P2. SIL OE.
C2NATMANY 202 1EBNB. SNAT. Ci PWATMIRNYRO2EAWTE SN 48, Cr ATMIRNY 202 11NL¥. SN.48. C25 ATW ANY/2021, SY. SN.50. CONATWRNY!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 202 1/RP RO! S54 TMRNY:

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 2021) BPRO2. SN.52. © 20Z71/RNY!, SN.53 202VRNY2. SN.64.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 2021) RNYS. SN.65.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: 2S/ATWRNY/202 1)
Th ANF I202 BGND

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 2S/ATMWIRNY!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: CY2S/ATIWWRNY/ CQAATMIENY!
AAT WORN Y 2021) NL? CO Enmost Money 7 S00 (For euch woriort) E-terciers wil be chooedon 11-01-2022 The complete information weh the fender fore ol abown o-tencer will be availasie in websila wren irespes spore In DRM [C}, Rangiya HOBTHEAST FRONTIER RAILWAY

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: “SRTANG CULMS WHT! O SA
SUA Std Hl STAAL
wet era fasts watSet,
S- Grerereltat Brital STS GAT
& fafaar yet Wet — RDD/SD/GIRIDIH/12/2021-22 1 :
Biikete
ore al farqa frazefl sho ; ureter =| set ay orl TT , orl Tr aH faca ar | aa a Yo wafer ret ea arate fiRSe foer & Grete vas sila 1 | SANT Sh oles AGAR GAA eet ¥ | 38581700.00 | 772000.00 | 10000.00 18 We gat Part! Gat et catg—08.44 Alex) 2. qaage F fear vere at fae — 07.01.2022 3. S-fafter orfte wr sifers fate vd GAs — 17.01.2022 SURTEA 5:00 Sui TH arr facrre fasts wiser, MRS / eT afro wratera, writer face fasrs vets, vro wHo tho aH, gat, eel 4 fifear Yow, sr HT UR, Bank Credit Certificate Va Affidavit TAT HEA HT Fah Vs WAT 18.01.2022 SIRT 05:00 dui ah 5. faftar ater or weirs — Fee aftdcr wraters, writer ferpre feaers wets, vo who Ho WAH, eal, VTA | 6. fafdar water ay fate vd Waa —19.01.2022 STURTEA 2:00 Foy 7. after aria He aret varfreant a Aa Vd Vat — @relurers aiftean, aPieT fara fasrs vasa, PRS | 8. g—faifdar Wels HT GRATy Go — 9431323435 (Galera GreturetH staan oT GRATy AFAR) 9. fifder yen wstaed to err feta gre a dod dea ot orelurers after, oer fare fais vasa, FIRSTS & USATA G Ca¥ Ca SFT foreda UME & fed Jase www.jharkhandtenders.gov.in Yd pratera eal Ve WwW eal UT GH eI prior sfiaa4r PR 260734 Rural Development (21-22) D aren free fasts visa, fists
Office of the Chief Engineer Central Design Organisation (CDO), Drinking Water & Sanitation Department
Near Nepal House, Doranda Ranchi-834002
Email: dwsdcdo@gmail.com, website: dwsd.jharkhand.gov.in
RFP No- 01/CDO/Ranchi/TPIA/2021-22
Dated: - 29.12.2021
entire Districts.
. Date of uploading of RFP on http://jharkhandtenders.gov.in
Last date & time of online submission Last date & time and Place for Submission Of Hard Copy
Pen
Opening Date of Technical Bid Document Fee
Helpline No. +91 9504577191

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: FINN
Water & Sanitation Division, Ranchi West payable at Ranchi.
2
Security should have validity period of 180 days.
opening, will be next following working day at the appointed time.
gov.in
office.
PR 260743 Drinking Water and Sanitation(21-22)#D
Request for Proposal (RFP)
Inviting Request for Proposal (RFP) for selection of Third Party Inspection Agency to carry out inspection of all engineering works relating to civil, mechanical and electrical components of Rural water supply scheme executed under Jal Jeevan Mission in the State of Jharkhand For 09 (Nine) Circle covering
04.01.2022 Pre-Bid meeting at CDO, DW&SD Jharkhand, Doranda, Ranchi-832002 25.01.2022 up to 6:00 PM
11.01.2022 at 3: 00 PM
27.01.2022 up to 5:00 P.M, at CDO, DW&SD, Jharkhand, Doranda, Ranchi-834002 (Bid Security & Document Fee should be submitted exclusively in physical form is sealed envelope) 28.01.2022 at 3:30 P.M
Rs. 10,000/- only (non-refundable)
Document fee should be submitted in the shape of Bank DD in favour of Executive Engineer, Drinking Bid Security should be submitted in the shape of NSC / Bank FD (issued within Jharkhand) / Bank guarantee (from any Indian nationalized / scheduled bank) of Rs. 5,00,000/= (Rs Five Lacs only) pledged in favour of Executive Engineer, Drinking Water & Sanitation Division, Ranchi West. Bid 10. In the event if the date specified for receipt/ opening declared a holiday, the due date for submission and 11.The Department reserves the right to cancel, revise or amend this notice or bid documents fully or partly prior to the last date notice for submission of offers or on any subsequent date.
12. All legal disputes will be entertained within the jurisdiction of Jharkhand high Court, Ranchi.
13. Bid Documents / any changes & Further details can be seen the website: http://jharkhandtenders.
14. All the documents must be submitted online and hard copy of the same should be submitted at CDO
Sd/-, (Sunil Kumar)
Executive Engineer (Quality Control), CDO, DW&SD, Jharkhand, Ranchi
New Delhi
16

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: THE WORLD

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: = TOPOFTHE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.76]: WORLD
fare eget
Simorgh rocket ahead of its launch. AP

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.71]: IRAN
State TV: Tehran launches rocket bearing 3 devices
Tehran: Iran on Thursday announced it launched a satellite carrier rocket bear- ing three devices into space, thoughit’s unclear whether any of the objects entered orbit around the Earth.The state TV report, as well as others by Iran’s semiofficial news agencies, did not say when the launch was con- ducted nor what devices the carrier brought with it.
However, Previous launches have drawn re- bukes from the US. The US State Department, Space Force and the Pentagon did not respond to requests for comment.Ahmad Hosseini, a Defense Ministry spokesman, identified the rocket as a Simorgh, or “Phoenix,” rocket. He said the three devices were sent up470km (290 miles). AP

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.89]: CHINA
Two fromnews outlet charged with sedition
Hong Kong: Two former editors from a Hong Kong online pro-democracy news outlet were charged with sedition and denied bail on Thursday, a day af- ter the outlet said it would cease operations follow- ing a police raid on its of- fice and seven arrests.
National security police said they charged two men, aged 34and 52, with one count each of conspir- acy to publish a seditious publication. Police also said they would prosecute the company for sedition.
Both were denied bail. AP
UNITED STATES Navy seizes
$4 million worth of heroin
Dubai: United States navy vessels seized 385kg of heroin in the Arabian Sea worthsome $4 million, ina major bust by the interna- tional maritime operation in the region, officials said onThursday.The drugs was hidden aboard a stateless fishing vessel plying Mideast waters, the inter- national task force said ina statement. The seizure took placeon Monday.The Navy said the fishing vessel likely came from Iran. All nine crew members identified themselves as Iranian, an Official said. He did not elab- orate on who manufac- tured the drugs or the ulti- mate destination. AP

✅ Current Affair [Score: 0.68]: PAKISTAN
Pak buys 25 fighter aircraft from China
Islamabad: Pakistan has acquired a full squadron of 25 multirole J-10C fighter jets from China in response to India’s pur- chase of Rafale aircraft, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said. He addedthat a_ full squadron of 25 all- weather aircraft com- prising J-10C will attend the Pakistan Day cere- mony on March 23 next year. “VIP guests are coming (to attend 23rd March ceremony) for the first time in Pakistan, the fly-past ceremony of JS- 10 (J-10C) is being held...,” Ahmed said. PTI
MASK UP: PARIS MAKES MASK must for people stepping outdoors
COVID VACCINE: MEXICO APPROVES | use of Cuba’s Abdala coronavirus vaccine

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: MEANWHILE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: SCHWARZENEGGER'S DIVORCE FINAL AFTER 10 YRS
Arnold Schwarzenegger and Maria Shriver'’s marriage is officially over more than 10 years after the award-winning journalist petitioned to end her then-25-year marriage to the action star and former California governor. The pair had been married since 1986 when Shriver filed for divorce in 201] after Schwarzenegger disclosed he had fathered a child with amember of their household staff years earlier.
BOOSTER: J&J’S SHOT TO HELP against severe Omicron disease, says study
Halt a million new cases in US ina day
Figure is almost twice as high as the worst days of last winter

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: NYT & REUTERS DECEMBER 30
WITH A caseload nearly twice that of the worst single days of last winter, the United States shattered its record for new daily coronavirus cases, a milestone that may still fall short of describ- ing the true toll of the Delta and Omicron variants because test- ing has slowed over the holidays.
Asasecond year of living with the pandemic was drawing to a close, the new daily case total topped 488,000 on Wednesday, according to a New York Times database. (The total was higher on Monday, but that number should not be considered a record because it included data from the long holiday weekend.)
Wednesday’s seven-day av- erage of new daily cases, 301,000, was also a record, compared with 267,000 the day before, accord- ing to the database. In the past week, more than two million cases have been reported nation- ally, and 15 states and territories
reported more cases than in any other seven-day period.
The rise has been driven by the highly contagious Omicron variant, which became domi- nant in the United States last week. So far, however, the in- crease has not resulted in more severe disease, as hospitalisa- tions have increased only 11 per- cent and deaths have decreased slightly in the past two weeks.
Omicron cases are expected to surge even faster across the United States as schools reopen next week after the winter holi- day, experts cautioned. Within weeks, the Omicron variant has fueled thousands of new Covid hospitalisations among US chil- dren, raising new concerns about how the many unvacci- nated Americans under the age of 18 will fare in the new surge.
Doctors say itis too early to de- termine whether Omicron causes more severe illness in children than other variants of the coron- avirus, but that its extremely high transmissibility is one key factor thatis driving up hospitalisations.
iriariod
jain
ee ee
Long lines are forming at testing sites across the country, including Manhattan, on Wednesday. NYT
Omicron will soon replace Delta as Messages pour in for whistleblower
dominant global variant: Experts doctor in China who die

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: GURDIP SINGH SINGAPORE, DECEMBER 30
EXPERTS IN Singapore, where 170 new Omicron cases were re- ported on Wednesday, have warned that the new and sup- posedly more contagious variant is likely to replace Delta over the coming weeks to months.
While Delta is still the most common veriant in all continents except Africa, Omicron is spread- ing quickly, said Dr Sebastian Maurer-Stroh, executive director of the state-owned Agency for Science, Technology and Research's Bioinformatics Institute here.
Of the genome submissions sent to the Munich-headquartered Gisaid, a data science initiative that provides the shared genome plat-
3 Indo-Canadians receive
As many as 170 new cases in Singapore
form for Covid, the Omicron strain has comprised between 7 percent and 27 per cent of new submis- sions over the past month, up un- til Tuesday. The figures refer to all continents except Africa.
“From current data, it looks like Delta will go down over time relative to Omicron,” The Straits Times said quoting Dr Maurer-
Canada’s civilian award

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: PRESS TRUST OF INDIA TORONTO, DECEMBER 30
THREE INDIAN-origin Canadians have been bestowed with the Order of Canada —one of the country’s highest civilian honours —for their outstanding achieve- ment, dedication to the commu- nity, helping in building a better nation and promoting bilateral ties between Canada and India.
Internationally renowned sci- entist and innovator Dr Vaikuntam lyer Lakshmanan; real estate mogul Bob Singh Dhillon, also known as Navjeet Singh Dhillon; and renowned paediatri- cian Dr Pradeep Merchant were among the 135 individuals hon- oured with the prestigious award, according to a press note up- loaded on the website of the
Governor General of Canada on Tuesday. “Today, Her Excellency Right Honourable Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada, an- nounced 135 appointments to the Order of Canada," it said, sharing the list of the recipients.
“Delighted to see the contri- butions of the dynamic Indian heritage community in Canada being recognised with Order of Canada. Congratulations to Dr Vaikuntam Iyer Lakshmanan, @BobDhillon_MEQ and @PradeepMerchant,” the High Commission of India in Ottawa tweeted on Wednesday.
According to the citation, Lakshmanan from Mississauga, Ontario was honoured "for his philanthropy and for his expert- ise in hydrometallurgy and busi- ness, which greatly benefited Canada-India relations"
Stroh, who is part of the global team that maintains Gisaid.
Omicron is already dominant in Australia, India, Russia, South Africa and the United Kingdom, noted Professor Dale Fisher, asen- ior consultant at the National University Hospital's Division of Infectious Diseases.
Based on local experience, if a person tests positive for the S- gene target failure, the individ- ual is likely to have the Omicron variant. While the Delta variant has 13 mutations with nine on the spike protein, Omicron has about 50 mutations not seen to- gether before, and 32 of them are on the spike protein.
Because of its mutations, the Delta variantattaches effectively to human cell receptors, causing it to be more infective, said Fisher. PTI
Ghislaine Maxwell convicted of hiring four teenage girls for Epstein sex abuse

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: LUC COHEN NEW YORK, DECEMBER 30

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: MARTIN QUIN POLLARD SHANGHAI, DECEMBER 30
THOUSANDS OF people left mes- sages on the social media account of the late Chinese Covid-19 whistleblower Li Wenliang on the anniversary of the day he learned of possible pneumonia-causing virus cases in Wuhan and shared the information with doctors.
On December 30, 2019, Li, an ophthalmologist at a hospital in Wuhan where the Sars-CoV-2 virus outbreak was first detected, saw a medical report showing po- tential SARS coronavirus cases were confirmed in the city, he wrote in a post on his Weibo ac- count on January 31.
In early January, after the in- formation on “SARS cases” was shared in a WeChat group, Li was
Se by Th
Li Wenliang in Hong Kong
Reuters file
reprimanded by the local police, according to the same Weibo post.
On January 12, he went to hos- pital, infected with the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease and
GHISLAINE MAXWELL was found guilty by a US jury on Wednesday of

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: EXPLAINED
Charges against @ Maxwell
d of Covid
died on February 7, 2020.
Since then confidence has grown in China’s response to the pandemic, but people have con- tinued to post to Li online, espe- cially on certain anniversary days as they did on Thursday.
“Happy new year Dr Li, we will remember you forever," wrote a user called Tdby. Others posted candle emojis, brief messages of thanks and exclamations of how twoyears have gone by so quickly, inthe comments section of one of Li’s posts on Weibo, China’s equiv- alent of Twitter. Many wrote con- versationally as if they were speaking to him beyond the grave.
Fang Kecheng from the Chinese University of Hong Kong said Li's Weibo microblog has become a place where people express their feelings they are not comfortable expressing elsewhere. REUTERS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: NATIONS TRY TO BALANCE OMICRON CURBS WHILE KEEPING ECONOMIES OPEN
Political leaders in some
nations, fearful of the economic impact of keeping so many workers at home, were considering shortening the period required for isolation after a positive Covid test or exposure.
SPAIN is reducing the quarantine period to seven days from 10, while Italy said it was planning to relax isolation rules for those who came into close contact with sufferers of the virus.
UNITED STATES released new guidance shortening the isolation period for people witha confirmed infection to five days from 10, so long as they are asymptomatic.
BRITAIN Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he will not issue new restrictions this year to limit the spread of Omicron, which now accounts for roughly 90% of all community infections
CHINA stuck to its policy of zero tolerance, keeping 13 million people in Xian, capital of central Shaanxi province, under rigid lockdown for aseventh day.
AUSTRALIA plans to make urgent changes to Covid testing rules to ease pressure on testing sites.
At Congress meet, Nepal’s Dahal faces graft attack

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: YUBARAJ GHIMIRE KATHMANDU, DECEMBER 30
PUSHPA KAMAL Dahal, who will be completing his three-and-half-decade as party chief, will have to respond to criticism related to growing personality
helping the late financier Jeffrey Epstein sexually abuse teenage girls, sealing a remarkable fall from grace for the British socialite.
Maxwell, 60, was accused of re- cruiting and grooming four teenagers between 1994 and 2004 for Epstein, her former boyfriend, who killed him- self in 2019 in a Manhattan jail cell while awaiting trial on sex abuse charges of his own.
She was convicted on five of six counts, including one count of sex traf-
Maxwell was accused of recruiting four girls between 1994 and 2004 for Epstein. NYTfile
cases in the wake of the #MeToo
Ghislaine Maxwell, former girlfriend of late financier Jeffrey Epstein, faces up to 65 years in prison for the five charges she was convicted of.She separately faces two perjury counts that will be tried at a later date. The two perjury counts relate to allegations that Maxwell lied un- der oath about her role in Epstein's abuse during a deposition for a sep- arate civil suit in 2016.
cult and corruption within the party on Friday — the fourth day of the ongoing Maoist Party Congress.
Several speakers have criticised Dahal for his pol- itics of one-upmanship during the closed sessions.
Dahal's life-size cutout and posters, which dominate the venue “ignoring hundreds of lead- ers whosacrificed their lives during the peoples war”, was one of the issues that found huge echo at the meeting. Central committee members Lekhnath Adhikari and Indra Bahadur Thing raised the issue of corrupt lifestyle of top leaders, and “corruption” in the party while they were in the government.
ficking. Lawyers for Maxwell, who faces up to 65 years in prison, vowed to appeal. Maxwell’s trial was widely seen as the reckoning Epstein never had and one of the highest-profile
movement,
Meanwhile,
which encouraged women to speak out about sexual abuse by famous and powerful people.
members _ of Maxwell’s family say they still believe
tion.." REUTERS
she is innocent. In a statement issued late on Wednesday, the Maxwell fam- ily said it would support the British so- cialite’s efforts to appeal her convic-
Adhikari also accused Dahal of compromising on policy issues, including international situation, mainly for his silence on “border encroachment” by India. Dahal is all set to be elected its chief for
another four-year term at the end of the Congress.
ON THE MORNING OF THAT Day, I HAD NO INKLING THAT By LATE AFTERNOON I WOULD BE LEAVING: ASHRAF GHANI
Former Afghan President says had no choice but to flee Kabul

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.87]: KATHY GANNON ISLAMABAD, DECEMBER 30
AFGHANISTAN’S FORMER pres- ident said he had no choice but to abruptly leave Kabul as the Taliban closed in and denied an agreement was in the works for a peaceful takeover, disput- ing the accounts of former Afghan and US officials.
Former President Ashraf Ghani said in a BBCinterview that aired on Thursday that an adviser gave him just minutes to decide to abandon the capital, Kabul. He also denied widespread accusa- tions that he left Afghanistan with millions in stolen money.
Ghani’s sudden and secret departure August 15 left the city rudderless as US and NATO forces were in the final stages of their chaotic withdrawal from the country after 20 years.
“On the morning of that day, Thad no inkling that by late af- ternoon I would be leaving,” Ghani told BBC radio.
His remarks conflicted with other accounts.
Former President Hamid Karzai told The Associated Press in an interview earlier this month that Ghani’s departure scuttled the opportunity for gov- ernment negotiators, including himself and peace council chair- man Abdullah Abdullah, to reach
Ghani denied widespread accusations that he left Afghanistan with a cache of stolen money. Reuters
an 11th-hour agreement with the Taliban, who had committed to staying outside the capital.
After calling the government defense minister Bismillah Khan, the interior minister and police
chief and discovering all had fled the capital, Karzai said he invited the Taliban into Kabul “ to pro- tect the population so that the country, the city doesn’t fall into chaos and the unwanted ele- ments who would probably loot the country, loot shops.”
But Ghani in his radio inter- view with British Gen. Sir Nick Carter, former chief of defence staff, said he fled “to prevent the destruction of Kabul,” claiming two rival Taliban factions were bearing down on the city and were ready to enter and wage a bitter battle for control. There was no evidence upon the Taliban entry of the rival factions Ghani referred to.
New Delhi
The insurgents, who in the days prior to the push into Kabul had swept over much of the coun- try as Afghan government forces melted away or surrendered, quickly took control of the palace.
According to humanitarian aid workers, the Taliban moved to protect their compounds.
Still, the Taliban takeover was met with widespread fear anda deep longing by many to flee their desperately poor home- land despite billions of interna- tional money over the 20 years the U.S.-backed governments had been in power.
In the BBC interview, Ghani denied widespread accusations that he left Afghanistan with a
cache of stolen money. The US Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction John Sopko has been tasked with investigating those allegations.
Successive Afghan govern- ments, as well as independent for- eign and Afghan contractors, have been accused of widespread cor- ruption, with dozens of reports by Sopko documenting the most egregious incidents. Washington has spent $146 billion on recon- struction in Afghanistan since the overthrow in 2001 of the Taliban, who had harbored al-Qaida and its leader, Osama bin Laden. Yet even before the insurgents re- turned in August, the poverty level in Afghanistan was at54%. AP

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: V7

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ECONOMY
» ®@ ©

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: OIL

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: GOLD

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: RUPEE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: SILVER
©) 746,688
® 274.42
® $74.60
&) %60,024
Note: Gold, silver rates at Delhi spot market, gold per 10g, silver per 1 kg; Crude oil (Indian basket) as of December 28

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: SENSEX: 57,794.32 W 12.17 (-0.02%) NIFTY: 17,203.95 W 9.65 (-0.06%) NIKKEI: 28,791.71 W 115.17 HANG SENG: 23,112.01 A 2547 FTSE: 7425.75 &5.06 DAX: 15,864.04 41179

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: POLICY WATCH

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY CODE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: ENS ECONOMIC BUREAU NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
A HIGH-LEVEL committee, constituted by the Centre, has proposed changes to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) to speed up the cor- porate insolvency resolution process and prevent avoidable transactions or deals likely aimed at siphoning off funds from distressed companies.
The Insolvency Law Committee (ILC) has proposed that once a resolution plan is approved by the Committee of Creditors (CoC) of a corporate debtor, the National Company Law Tribunals (NCLTs) be pro- vided “with 30 days for ap- proving or rejecting a resolu- tion plan”, with the tribunal being required to provide a reasonin writing ifitis not able to do so in the stipulated pe- riod. Banks and other key stakeholders have regularly cited delays in the resolution process as their key concern about the insolvency regime.
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has sought publiccom- ments on the proposed changes by January 13.
The ILC was constituted in 2017.Experts have often called out delays by the NCLT in ap- proving or rejecting a resolu- tion plan after it has been ap- proved by the creditors as unnecessarily long.
The ILC has also recom- mended that certain creditors be required to submit records of their claims authenticated by Information Utilities (IU), so that defaults can be verified more easily to speed up the process of admission of a cor- porate debtor into insolvency proceedings. While the IBC al- ready requires the NCLT to ei- theradmit or reject an applica- tion for insolvency within 14 days of an application, such a
Panel proposal to speed up resolution:
30 days for NCLT's to decide on plan

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: MCA SEEKS PUBLIC COMMENTS
@ The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has sought public comments on the proposed changes by January 13
decision often takes much longer in practice, said experts.
“Consequently, the AA (Adjudicating Authority) would only be required to con- sider [U authenticated records as evidence of default for Section 7 applications filed by such financial creditors as pre- scribed,” the ILC recom- mended. Section 7 of insol- vency proceedings are the ones initiated by financial cred- itors, such as banks and other financial institutions.
The ILC proposed the re- quirement for approval by the NCLT for a voluntary liquida- tion be removed and that only a special resolution or mem- bers’ resolution with approval of creditors representing two- thirds in value of the debt be required for the process.
The ILCalsorecommended that the look-back period. or the period which is reviewed for avoidable transactions, be started from the date of the ap- plication for insolvency pro- ceedings instead of the date of the commencement of insol- vency proceedings. The IBC provides for the insolvency professional or liquidator man- aging proceedings to lookback and review transactions over 2 years and evaluate whether any transactions were prefer- ential, undervalued, defraud- ing creditors or extortionate transactions and seek to re- verse such deals. Fullreporton
www. indianexpress.com

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.9]: URGE UNION GOVT TO RAISE ITS SHARE IN CENTRALLY-SPONSORED SCHEMES
In meet with FM, states push for GST compensation extension by 5 years

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: ENSECONOMIC BUREAU NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
WITH THE Covid pandemic im- pacting states’ revenues, they have urged the Central government to consider increasing its share in Centrally-sponsored schemes and anextension of compensation for another five years under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. In their pre-Budget meet- ing with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, some states urged the Centre to look into direct cash transfers for supporting economic recovery.
Rajasthan Education Minister Subhash Garg said extension of compensation cess window un- der GST till 2026-27 is a valid de- mand of states and the Centre should consider it. “Our most sig- nificant demand is that the Centre’s share in Centrally-spon- sored schemes has gradually re- duced and states’ share has in- creased. Earlier share would be 90-10 and now it is 50-50 or 60- AO, our request is that it should go back to 90-10,” Garg said.
Under GST, states were guar- anteed compensation at the com- pounded rate of 14 per cent from the base year 2015-16 for losses arising due to implementation of the taxation regime for five years since its rollout. The compensa-
Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman at the pre-Budget meet with state finance ministers in New Delhi, Thursday. PT!
Revenue hit amid e Covid

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: EXPLAINED
STATES WERE guaranteed compensation at the com- pounded rate of 14 per cent from the base year 2015-16 for losses arising due to GST implementa- tion for five years since its rollout, which will end in June. States are concerned as their revenues have taken a hit amid Covid.
tion regime will end inJune.
There has been a loss of rev- enue to states due to the GST sys- tem, the Centre has not made arrangements to compensate the loss of revenue of about Rs 5,000 crore to the state in the coming year, so the GST compensation grant should be continued for the next five years after June 2022, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said. “Many states have asked for this. We have also asked to extend GST compen- sation. If it is not extended, the fi- nances of many states will be ina bad shape,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said.
The Finance Minister and state ministers will meet on Friday as
‘High tax mop-up, under-spending to help undershoot fiscal deficit target’
The Centre is set to undershoot the fiscal deficit target by 20 bps at 6.6%, amid overall robust revenue mop-up and under- spending by many ministries, as per an India Ratings report
Centre had set Budgeted fiscal deficit target at 6.8% for FY22
Government finances show tax collections have benefitted both growth & inflation
Capital receipts are lagging and till Oct were only 10.5% of budgeted amount
Source: India Ratings/PTI

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: RBICLEARS INTERIM NAME
RBL Bank sets up panel to name MD-CEO
Mumbai: RBLBank said Thursday its board has constituted a search committee to identify anew man- aging director & chief executive of- ficer to head the bank.
Earlier in the day, the bank said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cleared Rajeev Ahuja’s appoint- ment as its interim MD and CEO for three months from December 25, or till appointment ofa regular MD&CEO, whichever is earlier. “...
the Board ... has constituted a search committee (comprising of the Chairman of the Nomination &Remuneration Committee, two members of the Board and one external expert) to identify and evaluate candidates for the posi- tion of MD & CEO...” it said. FE
-— BRIEFLY — Tesla US recall
San Francisco: Tesla is recall- ing 356,309 Model 3 and 119,009 Model S cars in the US to address rearview camera and trunkissues that raise crashing risks. REUTERS
Dish TV AGM
New Delhi: Dish TV’s AGM was held Thursday, but the result of e-voting for passing resolutions will be known only after Bombay HCs nod.
Importantinsurers
New Delhi: Irdai said LIC, GIC Re and New India continue tobe ‘Domestic Systemically Important Insurers’.
IICC stake sale
NewDelhi: SBI will buy about 10% in India International Clearing Corporation. PTI
IndiGo EGM: Nod to amend AoA
New Delhi: Shareholders of Inter- Globe Aviation Ltd, parent com- pany of low-cost airline IndiGo, on Thursday cleared a proposal by the carrier’s promoters to amend the articles of association (AoA), as per a stock exchange filing.
At an extraordinary general meeting(EGM), the shareholders approved the proposal to remove certain clauses from the AoA, to allow the sparring founder pro- moters Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh
Gangwal to sell their respective stakes in IndiGo without each other’s approval. The two pro- moter groups led by Gangwal and Bhatia together own 74.4 per cent state in the airline, and the re- moval of the clauses means that either side can sell or transfer shares toa third party without giv- ing each other notice.
The EGM was called upon a joint request by the promoters who have been at loggerheads
DICGC mops up 09,561 cr premium in first half of fiscal

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: ENS ECONOMIC BUREAU MUMBAI, DECEMBER 30
THEDEPOSIT Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), which provides insurance cover to depositors of banks, has collected deposit insurance premium of Rs 9,561 crore from banks during the six months ended September 2021, of which 93.5 per cent was contributed by commercial banks and the rest by co-operative banks.
With this, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), built out of the premia paid by insured banks and coupon income received on investments in government secu- rities, swelled to Rs 1.41 lakh crore as of September 2021, yielding a reserve ratio (ratio of DIFto insured deposits) of 1.81 percent, up from Rs 1.29 lakh crore in March 2021, the RBI said in the Financial Stability Report (FSR).
The settlement and recovery of claims from banks in the first half of 2021-22 was significantly higher than a year ago, the central bank said. As on December 20, 2021, DICGChas paid Rs 1,374 crore in respect of 1.09 lakh depositors of 16 out of 21 troubled banks —
Pvt bank CEOs get 67 times of typical staff's pay
Mumbai: There's a huge gap between the compensation paid to the CEO of a private bank and its employees, as per an RBI report. “For PSU banks, on an average, CEOs earn 3 times the typical em- ployee, while the same was 75 times in case of small fi- nance banks and 67 times in the case of private banks,” the RBI said inits Report on trend and progress in banking. ENS
that were eligible to receive such pay-outs, it said.
The DICGC, headed by RBI Deputy Governor Michael Patra, pays out a maximum of Rs 5 lakh as insurance to the depositor of a troubled bank. It paid Rs 393 crore todepositors in the first six months of the half-year ended September 2021, arise of 1,334 per cent com- pared to Rs 274 crore in the same period oflastyear. Full report on
www.indianexpress.com
over corporate governance issues at the airline. The call for the EGM came witha backdrop ofan order in September by the London Court of International Arbitration, which directed an amendmentto the ar- ticles of association to delete the clause pertaining to right of first refusal. Later, in October, Gangwal had approached the Delhi High Court, seeking directions for call- ing the EGM but the petition was dismissed. ENS
well at the 46th meeting of the GST Council, where the issue of the proposed hike in GST rate on textiles to 12 per cent from 5 per cent, effective January 1, will be taken up. West Bengal Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya asked the Centre to consider extending GST compen- sation, along with a demand for direct cash transfers.
“We have asked that money should be given directly to the hands of the people as DBT so that the economy can be revived.
When India’s growth was nega- tive by implementing DBT, Bengal had a positive growth. Because of Covid situation, states had to take
a huge financial burden. The cen- tre has to compensate for that through the Union Budget. The next issue is the centrally spon- sored scheme andits share. There were many schemes which were 100% government. Now it is 60- AO (ratio), 50-50 and in some schemes 75-25 has been turned into 25-75 so this should be cor- rected,” she said.
Rajasthan made a representa- tion for reduction in import duty on gold and silver from 10 percent to 4 per cent. Rajasthan also re- quested that all irrigation and wa- ter work projects should be brought under the Centre’s ambit and declared central schemes.
Tamil Nadu Finance Minister
Assembly polls: SBI set to issue electoral bonds from Jan 1-10

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: ENS ECONOMIC BUREAU NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
AHEAD OF Assembly elections in key states, the government has au- thorised State Bank of India (SBI) toissue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 authorised branches from January 1-10, the Finance Ministry said in a state- ment on Thursday. Seven states are heading into Assembly elections next year — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Gujarat and Uttarakhand.
The electoral bonds shall be valid for 15 calendar days from the date ofissue and no payment shall be made to any payee political party if the electoral bond is de- posited after expiry of the validity period, the Ministry said. The elec- toral bond deposited by an eligible political party in its account shall be credited on the same day.
Announced in the 2017 Union
Seven states are heading to polls next year — UP, Punjab, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Gujarat and Uttarakhand
Budget, electoral bonds are inter- est-free bearer instruments used to donate money anonymously to political parties. The bonds are sold in multiples of Rs 1,000, Rs 10,000, Rs 1 lakh, Rs 10lakh,and Rs 1 crore.
Companies as well as an individ- ualcan buy electoral bonds, either singly or jointly with others.
Only the political parties reg- istered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and which secured not less than one per cent of the votes polled in the last General Election or state assembly elec- tions, are eligible to receive the electoral bonds.
P Thiaga Rajan said this opportu- nity should be used to correct some of the anomalies such as re- duction in state’s right to deter- mine their own taxation. He also demanded extension of GST com- pensation cess regime for at least 2 years because of Covid, along with making a case for raising the share of the Union governmentin Centrally-sponsored schemes.
Some states also raised the is- sue of putting the proposed rate hike on textiles effective January 1 onhold for now, an issue which is also to be discussed in the GST Council meeting.
The Finance Ministry in its statement said it has assured the states of examining the proposals made by them.
“Most of the participants thanked the Union Finance Minister for financially support- ing their States/Union Territories during the worst months of pan- demic, by enhancing borrowing limits, providing back to back loans to States, and through spe- cial assistance for capital expen- diture. The participants also gave numerous suggestions to the Union Finance Minister for inclu- sion in the Budget Speech. The Finance Minister thanked the par- ticipants for their inputs and sug- gestions towards Union Budget 2022-23 and assured to examine each of the proposals,” it said.
International market data till 1900 IST

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: EXTENSION BY RBI
March 31 deadline
to update bank KYC
The RBI said the extension was in view of the prevailing uncertainty due to new Covid-19 variant. File

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: ENS ECONOMIC BUREAU MUMBAI, DECEMBER 30
THE RESERVE Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday extended the last date for know your customer (KYC) updation for bank accounts by three months to March 31 next year. Ina notification, the RBI said it was extending the deadline in view of the “prevalent uncertainty due to new variant of Covid-19”.
The central bank had relaxed the rules first in May last year due to the pandemic and had said banking services should not be re- stricted just because the KYC doc- uments have not been updated by the customer. Many banks had re- cently warned customers that their bank accounts will be frozen if they don’t update their KYC by December 31.
Chip, display units scheme: From Jan 1, applications invited

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.88]: ENS ECONOMIC BUREAU NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
THE MINISTRY of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) will start accepting applications for setting up of semiconductor fabrications units, display fabrica- tion units, compound semicon- ductors, silicon photonics as well as for design linked incentive scheme from January 1, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said.
“For the smaller scheme, whichis compound semiconduc- tor, semiconductor assembly, test- ing, marking and packaging, we
Samsung, Micron warn of crunch
Bengaluru: Samsung and Micron warned that strict Covid curbs in China’s Xian could disrupt chip manufac- turing bases. REUTERS
will start concurrent evaluations .. The bigger ones, which is silicon and display, we will receive the application till February 15 and then we will start evaluations,” he added. Full report on
www. indianexpress.com
i MANICUR UNIVERSITY ft CANCMIPIFA: IMPHAL-TaG0% MANIPUR

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: CORRIGENDUM
Dated. the 28" Deecember, 20217 MoMLS- 12401 PCY ibad: In supersession cf dhe Univorsity’s Advanligement Mi. 12027 dated 24° December, 2021. tis heresy Notifiad that tha Winiwersity is inviling applications for 78 (Saventy-Eighl} posts of Profeseor, Agaociale Profesacr and fvssisiant Professor tor 34 Banariments
The last Date-of Ine ontine applicalion ss 24" January, 202.
UGC Beguialian 2010 will be Tel laser
Details may be downloaded tram Ine Uriiwersely website weew.manipurunivacin
Roegistrar Mate por University

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.84]: OSBI
Enterprise Integration Services, State Bank of India, Global IT-Centre, Sec-11, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai - 400614

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: NOTICE INVITING TENDER
RFP NO: SBI/GITC/Enterprise Integration Services/2021/2022/816 DATED: 27.12.2021
Bids are invited by State Bank of India from the eligible bidders for “PROCUREMENT, INSTALLATION, COMMISSIONING AND MAINTENANCE OF STORAGE". For details, please visit ‘Procurement news’ at https://www.sbi.co.in and e-Procurement agency portal https://etender.sbi/SBI/ Commencement of download of RFP: From 31.12.2021.
Last date and time for submission of bids: 21.01.2022 upto 14:00hrs.
Place: Navi Mumbai Date: 27.12.2021
Deputy General Manager Enterprise Integration Services
#u) VO w THE FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS TRAVANCORE LIMITED
PIONEERS IN Procress (A Government of India Enterprise) Regd. Office: Eloor CORPORATE MATERIALS, PD ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING, UDYOGAMANDAL, COCHIN, KERALA-683 501
E-mail: akhila
factitd.com / mat-contracts1 @factltd.com / j # akumarp@factltd.com, lebsite: www.fact.co.in Phone: 0484-256861 12568123
NOTICE INVITING e-TENDERS
Online co
ender No : 04031/2021- 2022/E24585
petitive two bid tenders are invited for the flowin works through www.eprocure, ay in 1) Preparatory Civil Works for the Construction of New 1000!
Structures at FACT CD, Ambalamedu, Kochi- Land Development Wo!
MT Ammonia Storage Tank & Allied Works.
e-tender ID: 2021_FACT_665971 1
2) Dischargi ng, sievin and recharging (with makeup) of catalyst and Honeycomb from all the
four beds o' ender No : 04006/2021-2022/E24581
catalytic converter in Sulphuric Acid
lant at FACT CD during ATA 2022.
e-tender ID : 2021 FACT 665976 1
Last date & time for submission of above bids: 20.01.2022 at 11.00 hrs.
The complete bidding process will be online (e-tendering) only. All the notifications, Time extension
Gorrgendum m, Adden Portal Date- 30.
(eprocure. gov.in) and will no 2.2021
um etc. if any regarding this tender hereafter will be hosted in fact.co.in/CPP be publistied in newspapers.
sd/- SM(Mat)C
GOVERNMENT OF HIMACHAL PRADESH HIMACHAL PRADESH STATE ROADS TRANSFORMATION PROJECT (HPSRTP) Request for Expression of Interest Proposal (REol)
Name of Project:
Loan No/Credit No. 9066-IN Grant No:
Date:
December 31, 2021
Himachal Pradesh State Roads Transformation Project (HPSRTP)
The Director (Projects)-cum-CE, H.P. State Roads Project, HPRIDCL, Nigam Vihar, Shimla-171002 , Himachal Pradesh India invites Expression of Interest from National and International Consultants for the consultancy services as detailed in the table below:-
Sr. Description of the consultancy Services
No
Date of availability of Expression of Interest (Eol) on HPRIDCL web site
Last date/Time for submission of Proposals
1 Procurement of Safety Assessment of major road network in Himachal Pradesh using iRAP methodology.
December 31, 2021
January 21, 2022
REol & ToR_ will be
available on
the official web
http://himachalservices.nic.in/hpridc/HPSRTP.html .
Note: -
site of
HPRIDC under link
Any further addendum/Corrigendum to this Request for Expression of Interest Proposals Documents
shall be available to all interesting firms on the same web site link. Proposal must be delivered in a written
form to the address below (in person, or by post) by January 21, 2022 at 15:00 hours (IST)
Director (Projects)-cum-CE, H.P. State Roads Project, HPRIDCL, Nigam Vihar, Shimla-171002

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: 0610/HP
New Delhi
- fan —sue/ fama / wert / 2021/1235
feat :- 13.12.2021
# forferan rant (UB No. DLB2122WS0B21522, 21514, 21524, 21523)
ar fr oY
http://eproc.rajasthan.gov.in,
www.nnj.north.rajasthan.gov.in aR eel oT Gea
aR fra Stege-oee TR ATA 4 SER
Raj.Samwad/C/10004/2021-22
SR A GES IRS Retell Bg ite
ort #1 g- ae wai art dt faega sient,
www. ww $ppp. rajasthan.gov.in vq I

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST ALWAR NOTICE INVITING BID- 20/2021-22
S.No.: 14970-79/21
Date : 24.12.2021
Bids for Drain work invited from interest bidders upto 29.12.2021 (Foritemno-1 upto 07.01.2022) 4.00 PM Other particulars of the bid may be visited on the procurement portal (http://eproc.rajasthan.gov.in, http://sppp.raj.nic.in) of
the state and www.uitalwar.in UBN: UAL2122WSLB00240
Raj. Samwad/C/2021-22/9999
Executive Engineer UIT, Alwar
The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply & Transport Undertaking
(Of The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation)
TENDER NOTICE E-tenders are re-invited for the supply of following items.
(1) 70983, (2) 71584 (Corrigendum), (3) 72408, (4) 72253 (Re-
tender).
Note : For more details, log on to website https://mahatenders. gov.in.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: PRO/AAM(M)/101/2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.91]: GENERAL MANAGER
9 S (cS
nat Mew?
E-Tender Notice e-procurement tender International Competitive Bidding
CHENNAI METRO RAIL LIMITED (A Joint Venture of Govt. of India & Govt. of Tamil Nadu) Admin Building, CMRL Depot, Poonamallee High Road, Koyambedu, Chennai - 600 107, India. Ph: 044 2379 2000 Pie:

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: E-TENDER NO: CMRL/CON/PHASE-II/CORR-3/CP05/UG05-RT01/2021
CMRL invites digitally signed tender through e-procurement portal from reputed, experienced, financially sound, eligible applicants, who fulfill the qualification criteria as mentioned in the tender through International Competitive Bidding under Single Stage Two Envelope (Technical & Financial) system for the works as detailed below under loan disbursement of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA):
E-Tender No: CMRL/CON/PHASE-II/CORR-3/CP05/UG05-RT01/2021 (under JICA loan agreement ID-P272) - “Construction of Three (03) Underground Stations at Adyar Depot, Indira Nagar and Taramani Road Junction (Taramani) & Ramp and works other than Diaphragm wall of One Underground Station at Thiruvanmiyur Metro in Corridor-3 of CMRL Phase-I! Project’.
For further details, please visit:
For NIT: www.chennaimetrorail.org
For Downloading Bid Documents:
https://eprocure.gov.in/eprocure/app
DIPR/4387/Tender/2021
Sd/- Director (Projects)
Carper SL 55) 5557 QoL hCard. signer yAbg eSAgo uso_CGumd.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: 18 CALENDAR
OVER THE HEDGE by Michael Fry & T Lewis

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CROSSWORD 4626

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: ONIAVD ‘SILVYD UALVE “AAAI SNOLLATIOS
a

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: ARE THERE ANY MONSTERS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WADER YY BED TOMHSHT ?
HAMIMY, YOU CAN'T DiS TO THE IDE OF THE EARTH! AT'S TAtT MILES!

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: HMMM.
ara)
MONSTERS WNDER Py BER, BOW, Gita WOULD THEN Be?

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: BY PETER VIDAL
EDS Pop Bi Devas Coed bn Penireves LA ited Dipenite ——
ARIES (Mar 21 - Apr 20) There is bound to be an almighty row over finances, although if you're lucky, it will be delayed until next week by which time you'll have had a chance to put matters right. Overspending and unrealistic ambitions may be to blame but, then, unless you think big, you'll never get anywhere.
TAURUS (Apr 21 - May 21) It's good to stick to your principles but, as you know, you can be alittle too obstinate. If recent events haven't taught you the value of flexibility and compromise, nothing will. At home, go for
LIBRA (Sep 24 - Oct 23) The week may be drawing to a close but there are indications of a last-minute panic at work, prompted by events for which you may or may not be responsible. In any event, you'll be required to deal with the consequences in your inimitable, charming style.
SCORPIO (Oct 24 - Nov 23) Often, it's surprisingly difficult to cope with good fortune, if only because of the inevitable adjustments to anew routine which must follow. Don't let such considerations blind you to your current opportunities,
total change, just in case you or to an offer made bya had any doubts. The best close relation.
advice comes from those in the ACROSS DOWN know. so ask SAGITTARIUS (Nov 24 - Dec 22) 1. Giveoldmanweaponsforthe 2 Catchesasonecomes , . It cannot be final conflict (10) drunkenly home (5,2) GEMINI (May 22 - June 21) stressed too highly 8 Checked garments for 3 Poe’s aweird storyteller You may still be that Mercury 9 coortish soldiers e ) ith 4 2 two notes at the chari adjusting to the fact situated asitisina 1) CORIOULINEDE STI TYy bre ‘onotes at the charity that,afteranumber _ realistic sector of your solar a ) drinikstoash i 5 ea - ftheb > of years, you are no chart, is providing you with c 117) Walsusstosiul|y 5) SOU Gale Oubte WSs tse longer the centre of attention. protection and guarantees that " Follo a . A 6 a RETO Ee In many ways this change you'd be a fool to ignore. All : lithe “ania cll ISe I ey eth it ors eleatelala reflects a shift in your self- areas of your life may benefit.
in litigation (5) . slain perhaps (5) image rather than any real And I honestly believe that 12 Notes there are many in short 7 Settled ina resolute way alteration in your they will skirts (6) (10) circumstances. That will make 14 Therespect in which going 8 Tribal symbols could be it much easier to cope with CAPRICORN (Dec 23 - Jan 20) back meets the point temples too (5,5) , Your current (6) 13. Something that flies holding a CANCER (June 22 - July 23) planetary patterns 17 Convicts once picked it but large number - it’s big Your famous are bound to a from choice ( 5 Ne eee EMPLOY 4 @& Cancerian reserve scritati exacerbate certain ; i i _ stems not so muc irritations, yet it's at such times 19 Delivery from Ontario (7) with animals (7) FACT-CHECKER from a lack of that you are driven to 21 Regards foreign money asa 16 Resign because of one’s self j AT THE feeling as from a failure to implement improvements in bad thing (7) image? (6) express those very your circumstances and 22 Billfree of bitterness? (5) 18 Supporters of a proposal : considerable emotions that relationships that would 23 There are terms for this (5) i inhabit your unconscious. Try otherwise be delayed (10) 20 Notall separate (5) to be more direct in future. indefinitely.
Because, if you're not, other i people will be That's for sure AQUARIUS (Jan 21- Feb 19) Solutions Crossword 4625: Across: 1 Elapse, 4 Brooch, 9 Harbour, 10 Nutty, 11 Run j : , After many ups and up, 12 Towrope, 13 Out of breath, 18 Uncover, 20 Dosed, 22 Finis, 23 New moon, 24. 4 .
Waylay, 25 Adders. Down: 1 Exhort, 2 Aaron, 3 Scorpio, 5 Renew, 6 Outpost, 7 7 LEO (July “ Aug?3) d downs, veto may dt Hoyden, 8 Protuberant, 14 Uncanny, 15 Endowed, 16 Curfew, 17 Adonis, 19 Vesta, 21 Z enus, Mercury an now 00 . orwa Tato Gaara i Neptune, those , ‘lb a period in wich ree sensationa you'll be able to appreciate planets, are still past achievements in an occupying significant atmosphere of calm rather positions. With any luck, the than one of strife and J U M B LE D W O RD Ss pressure and uncertainty antagonism. On the other Difficulty Level 2s (o) which they have brought into hand, if you accept that Instructions [o) your lifeshouldnowbeintheir anything newis probably Given below are four jumbled words. Solve the jumbles to make proper words and move them to Tosolvea Sudoku puzzle, La final stages. And hopefully you _ better than the life you're the respective squares below. Select the letters in the shaded squares and jumble them to get every digit from 1to 9 v should soon leaving behind, you'll get on so the answer for the given quip. Oo must appear ineach of the =) feel fitter. much better.
elena) menexcept those whohaverendered_______ to the humanrace. nN nine vertical columns, in Ss VIRGO ( ‘Aug 24-Sep 23) PISCES (Feb 20 - Mar 20) , + each of the nine horizontal QO The Sun is decisively You can afford to be LVEEE AGRIST 2 rows and in each of the 5 altering its pleased with all the < nine boxes. o relationship to prizes and rewards (eo) Mercury, your ruling you've won in the Qa S planet, but in many respects past and, if you are fair to TERRA AINCGV 5 Difficulty Level O the heat may still be on. In yourself, you must admit that (Jp) _ 5. Ean. = particular, take into account these are considerable. There's 3s = Medium; 4s = Hard; _I acquaintance or business laurels, and none to join in the . 5s = Very Hard; 6s = [e) partner is to hear from you: sit problems created STTEYOA ~ “ODeTUELINY Geni down and listen. by partners 9} 0} BdIATas JeaIS palapUs! VAY OYM asoy} JdadXe UI Jea18 OU JO MOUY | -JaMsUY alls ” . yP .

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WAME OF WORK NOTICE TENDER

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: | CONSTRUCTION GF COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER AT VILLAGE HASSANFUR

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: OPENING DATE CLOSING DATE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: AMOUNT { EMD

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: (APPRONL) IN RUPEES

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: WEBSITE OF THE DEPARTMENT

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: NODAL OFFICER /CONTACT DETAILS) EMALL
i PAD BAR PALWAL IN PALA CASTT, (°C PH + SAIN WATER HARVESTIMG SYSTEM A ROAD ee ILSI LAS Teas iehendars. hry aici pal jatantd sicin }— PARSING) (RE-TENDER) 741. | sat pebndetry. tic y , ONT7EIZALIG | [MPSLOVEMENT OF GJBHANA TO BARMAGARH ROAD IN JHAUIAR DISTRICT 26.12.2021 2 PWO BAR BAKACURGARH Nes apr < ad aA TESLA ope /ehenders, trys pad cape a ENN | eae | sauce RENEWAL COAT OF S040 FROM NOG8 ADAD TO MODIPUR VIA MUGAL Hay 0 j PWD GBR KARNAL MAQRA ROAD (3040 ID 7172 & 7174) LENGTH EM. O00 TD 10.949 1N 21.2 185,44 LAS Traps /ehendars, hry ec is a LM , ferrets ahs

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 4 PWD BBR HISAR

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: KARMAL DISTRICT (UNDER PMGSY SCHEME) CONSTRUCTION OF ROAD FROM ADWMPUS BUS STAND RAILWAY FATAK ADAD TO KOHL MAHALSARA ROAD ALOHS WITH SIRSA HISAR RAILIVAY

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: LINE AT VILLAGE BOUNDARY ADAM?UA SP 0.00 TO 6300 IN HISAR ODS7T, [ADAMPUR CONSTTTVENCY) (PRG. SHIFTING OF EXSSTING HT LT LINES

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: OLY), RECALL + 2 OTHER WORKS
30.12.2021 06.01.2222
Temps (ehendars, hey seca
SHAT ME peed-esed-hesanGhry.nic in
FORESTS DEPARTMENT Sg TT CRASH STR ST HARYANA PROSE AES 1 COE RE Ne HAM Rees aye grembonsiasn _| ESTIMATE FOR CONSTRUCTICN DF 2 NOG. BOOGTING AT VILLAGE KHARAE - . :
Be eee | MNOALIPUR DNCLUCING FUNCTIONAL HOUSE MCLD TaP connection AT | 2B22-04 2OPLACS | bregecitendies brenicin Fomor | ae VILLAGE KHARAR -ALIOUR TEHSIL & DISTT, HISAR (UNDER JIM CaT EI, sade aks pana to FORESTS DEPARTMENT ADVERTISEMENT FOR INTER LOOX TILE BLOCKS FATH B SIDE WALL IH %.2.290 = . Syg3080015 jwsivis sutant | __ FOREST COMPLEX AIHA LAND INSTALLATION CE MAMNGATE.__|__rnenagz_| SBS | TABSIEEBSIVACH | srmanigenatoom _ FARIGATION & WATER | LAYING PIPELINE OF FLESH WATER FOR FILING OF OFENIVINA POND OF | netic nny canal RESOURCES DEPARTMENT VILLAGE OHAROUDI FROM NEW DEARDUO MINDR AT RD 23550). IN THE 172 th 21G CADRE Pape //ohondors, hry auc in P in@gevie HARYANA WARWANA LENGTH OF 0 TO 1100 FEET + 12 OTHER WORKS. | eee es ARGATION A WATER |. SDEREMES: WTP, RETO :
RESOURCES DEPKATMENT SEMASILITATION OF SHESPURA nt js fD 0 TO $2500 + 1 OTHER seco O43 LACS bens: istendas bey nics asters n HARYENA BHTWANI — ROS EVENT & 29.12.2021 971953375 PANCHAYATS OFFICER INsTTING RATES OF ELECTRIC RICKSHAW FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION 9.52200) bray etenders try cis ° A) LARACAAH 00.01.2322 focheshnigral com.
il py RETENOES CONST OF IPE STREETS WITH AT VILLAGE SANDAL KALA WU beste hevcicls Bin‘ a BLOCK SOMIFAT AND 7 NO, OF OTHERS ORAS DISTRICT SOMAT 791.2022 anand bazesegnal con BLOCK DEVELDPMENT & aoe =: ‘4 st CONSTRUCTION OF LP.B RASTA IM VILLAGE BKATGADN BLOCK SOMMPAT | 302.0021 , ae 9315998203 2 sia oh COSTRACT SONIPAT 791.2022 aap ireneoes apie papeststerial con | - FE TENDER FOR GREY WATER MANAGEMENT AT VILLAGE MAYYAR , BLOCK WU ee : ALGTSESS >| a | HISAR + 2 OTHER WORRS | tena TREN YRC | rower hergtey.nicin SEAR TAO WORK CONST, OFCONMUMITY CENTSE INCLUDING PH WORKS AIDS) 2K 2.2021 a 9913505200 19 | PRMCUNYATT RAL CARNAL OTHER WORKS 16 91.2522 nea SIC eseerg kt@ty.ricin IE : THO WORK CONST. OF MODEL COND OF GANGA FORD AND SOTERA) 28a. rr wBLI9IS200 1S] PRAMASATT RAD RRA, WORKS (601.0022 rexserg ie Bly.ticin _— 11 Wa, WORK COMP, OF BRICK UNG AND SENOUATION CF POND ANDO) 282.021 — __ GULIBS20 S| a | OneR WORK meri | SABLAGS prestera.t ghry.4icin : 10.2092 aa = 054-2699 | ae | emer | temas | RS | NE | mntieticirichs _LOPERSEARE ae POET, 3032.02 : , 8573535662 18 PANCHAYATI RAD MARNAUL CONST. OF BHD GASS PLANT [400UM!DAY CAPACITY DV VILL- KATKAL tH? 95.41 LACS hits: //etenders. try sects - sabe) en ‘vedeky x v Ohad FORESTS DEPARTMENT | CONSTRUCTION NEW RANGE OFFKE BUILDING R-TI, 03, 0°2539N | 27,2.2021 0733-22059 HARYANA PIOORE DHEMALA BEAT, SURAJPUR BLOCK, KALKA RANGE 391.2022 eioeszeritapniloom

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: WOVEN AND CHILD EVENT FAVA
TRANSPORTATION FOR Sve & OTHER ITEMS

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CLOSING DATE $60). 2977,
Ptpic/lebendess, byeicis

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 955053088 PAE NOSIS CM
DIRECTOR GENERAL, SUPPLIES i. DISPOSALS, HARTANA

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: DIRECTOR GENERAL, SUPPLIES & DISPOSALS, ____HARERNA DIRECTOR GENERAL, SUPPLIES 6. DISPOSALS, HARYANA CIRECTOR GENES, SUPPLIES 6 DISPOSALS, HARTARA

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: BS
+

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: VINIMUM 95 HP, BS-VI

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: WOMEN AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT DEPMATMENT, PRAIA

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: 5S90/HRY
(7) BUS, MOMOMUM 52 SEATER, MOMOMUM 115 42, ALONGITTH STANDARD | MTESSHORES, BS V5 (Ti) MINT StS, MINIMUM 32 SEATER, MINIMUM $5 HP,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: CAA, MINIMUM 8) GHP, B5-47

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: PRISOM WAY BUILT-UP, 20-25 SEATER AND 2+4 GUARD SEATING CAPACITY,

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: H.22241 17.41.2022
1.2 17.44.2022
4.22001 19,01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: VAIRA (RIDT CONTROL VEHICLE), MINIMUM 1+5 SEATING CAPACITY, VINIMIM G3 HP, 85-1

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: | COMPLETE PLANNING OF ACTIVITIES, ORAWONG DETAILED SPECIFICATION OF MACHIVERY, LAYOUT OF MACHINERY AS PER LAY DUT PLA OF BUILDING DESIGNED €Y ARCHITECTURE CEPARTMENT HARVAHA, PREPARIS OF SPQ (TENDER DOCUMENT FOR PROCUREMENT OF MACHINER', AND GETTING LICENSES REQUIRED FROM VARIOUS DEPARTMENTS, INSTALLATION AND COMMISSIONS OF PLANT TAGLCANG MAIVTEMANCE [DURING DEFECT LAABGLITY PERIOD) ETC
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION KINDLY VISIT : www.haryanaeprocurement.gov.in or www.etenders.hry.nic.in | nn 6
28.22.2321 13.01.2022
Hips stenders. bry.zicin,
dendhayata.gov.h
bts; letenders. bry.cicin,
éendtspats. gavin
Pitos/etenders. brycin,
dandaryanz.govin
bite erencers. hrycucin,
eandtaryans.gov.n
hips tenders. hevccit
ONE 25721 524,2554 75, 7565125 suppbesiiry nic. In
t72-257012L- 024,2534175, 2585125 suppbesiiny née. In
O872-2570121- 134,2534125, 2565125 besbivy re, 1h
Of72-2570121- 124,2534125, 2585125 suppbesBtry. ric In
Salgssatis terarch.woonal ron
ke] BHAKRA BEAS MANAGEMENT BOARD

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: (POWER WING)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: CORRIGENDUNGIV NOTICE INVITING E-TENDERS
NIT No. BP-2899
Name of Office : Dy. Ciel Enoineer, Bhakre Power Houses Circe, BBMB (PW), Nangel.
Name of work: Replacemert of 220KV Single Bus Conductor Gus Bar with twin 0.6 sg. inch ACSA Morculla conducier bus bar & 2 No, Isclators al 220 KY Switchyard & supply of Hardware lor Buakra Paght Bank Power Hause of Bhakra Boas Management Board (BEMB).
Last date lordoantoad tender documents 18.01.2022 upto 16: 00hirs.
Lasl dale loraubmasion of ontne bil 16,01, 2022 upto 17.00 rs, Due date torepering bic (Part-l} 19.01.2022 af 11:00 Hrs.
For detailed NIT & Earnest Money to be deposited please visit BBMB Vebete hips: Ubembeproc eteprocur.com, www. Sbenb.gov,in
543-PR-Generation-5 Far your Better Tomorrew Save Energy Today

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: UJVN LTD.
H.O.: "UJJWAL", Maharani Bagh, G.M.S. Road Dehradun-248006 Telephones: 0135- 2763808 & Fax: 0135-2763508 CIN No. U40101UR2001SGC025866 Website: www.ujvni.com
Ro.No.- 1058 e-Tender Notice Dated- 30.12.2021
Office of the Executive Engineer (Civil-Il), Vyasi HEP, Lakhwar Bhawan, Dakpathar, Distt-Dehradun (Uttarakhand) invites online bids from interested parties. Brief summary of tender is given below:- Tender No: 15/UJVNL/03/EE (Civil-Il)/Vyasi HEP/2021-22.
Name of the Work: "Construction of Shops and Dispensary Center for Project affected people of Vyasi Project at Hathiyari, Dehradun." Estimated Cost: Rs. 12328701.00 (Rs. One Crore Twenty Three Lacs Twenty Eight Thousand Seven Hundred one only) Including GST.
Date of availability of bid document on website : 29.12.2021 from 10:00 Hrs.
Last Date for submission of bid onwebsite: 18.01.2022 upto 17:00 Hrs.
For fuller & further details, kindly visit e-procurement portal http://uktenders.gov.in EE(Civil-Il)
"Avoid wasteful use of Electricity"
OPEN TENDER NOTICE 01. Name of work with its location : Mapping of OHE masts/portals of main line in section from Cl to SMO via SPP and MFP-SPJ section over sonepur division, 02. Approx.
cost of the works (%) : $18, 66, 969/-, 03.
Earnest Money to be deposited (2) : = 0/-, Cost of tender form (2) : % O/-, 04. Date & time for submission of e-tender and opening of e-tender : Submission of e-tenders:
31.01.2022 till 12.00 hrs. Opening of e-tenders: on 31.01.2022 at 12.00 Hrs. in the office of the Sr. Divl. Electrical Engineer (TRD), DRM Office, E.C. Railway, Sonpur, 05. Website particulars and notice board location where complete details of e-tender can be seen : WEBSITE:
http://www. ireps.gov.in NOTICE BOARD:
DRM Office Campus, E. C. Railway, Sonpur.
Asst. Divisional Electrical Engineer/TRD East Central Railway/Sonpur PR/01439/SEE/ETRD/T/21-22/24

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: “IMPORTANT"™
Whilst care is taken prior to acceptance of advertising copy, it is not possible to verify its contents. The _ Indian Express (P) Limited cannot be held responsible for such contents, nor for any loss or damage incurred as a result of transactions with companies, associations or individuals advertising in its newspapers or Publications. We therefore recommend that’ readers make necessary’ inquiries before sending any monies or entering into any agreements with advertisers or otherwise acting on an advertisement in any manner whatsoever.
ip GOVERNMENT OF HARYANA ETP ei ed

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: NAME OF BOARD/ CORP./AUTH

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: NAME OF WORK NOTICE TENDER | OPENING DATE CLOSING DATE

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: (TIME)

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: AMOUNT/EMD (APPROX.) IN RUPEES

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WEBSITE OF THE BOARD CORP./AUTH

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: NODAL OFFICER/CON- TACT DETAILS/EMAIL

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: HARYANA DAIRY DEVEL- OPMENT COOPERATIVE FEDERATION LTD.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL FOR SELECTION OF AGENCY TO SETUP AND OPERATE CENTRAL STATE LABORATORY FOR THE SAMPLING OF FOOD PRODUCTS IN ROHTAK, HARYANA
31.12.2021 19.01.2022

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: NA
www.vitaindia.
vitaindia @ gmail.com org.in

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: 6584/HRY
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION KINDLY VISIT: www.haryanaeprocurement.gov.in or www.etenders.hry.nic.in

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: GOVERNMENT OF ASSAM OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ENGINEER:

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: PWD: BUILDING: ASSAM CHANDMARI: GUWAHATI-3.
No. CE/78-1V/30/2020/30
PRESS NOTICE (Re-Tender)
In cancellation of the earlier Press Notice issued vide No. SMC/30/2020/11, dtd. 27.10.2021, the Chief Engineer, P.W.D. (Buildings), Assam, on behalf of the Governor of Assam, invites fresh bids through Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode of contract for the following work, from eligible contractors having experience in similar nature of work.
Details of the bid may be seen at e-procurement website i.e. www.assamtenders.gov.in The bidders must be enrolled in www.assamtenders.gov.in
SI No
Cost of RFP Document
Earnest Money Deposit
Name of Work Approx.
Value of
Work
in favour of
E.M.D. to be drown
Defect Liability period
Completion Period
Rs. 9132.00 Lakh
Rs.182.64 L (for General) or, Rs. 91.32 L (for reserved Category)
Reconstruction of Assam House at 8- Russel Street, Kolkata
Rs. 12,500/-
E.E., PWD, Assam Houses construction Division, New Delhi.
24 (twenty four) months
1 (one) yrs.
N.B. this Press Notice will form a part of the bidding Documents.
Sd/-
Chief Engineer, P.W.D. (Building),

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.98]: JANASANYOG /C/9949/21
New Delhi
Assam, Chandmari, Guwahati-3

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: SPORT

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: BENGALURU WIN 6-GOAL THRILLER
Inspired substitutions from Bengaluru FC head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli did the trick as his side ran out 42 winners over Chennaiyin FC in the Indian Super League in Vasco on Thursday.
Bengaluru moved to eighth on the table with the win.
PTl
Australia didn’t lose a Test at the Gabba since their nine- wicket defeat against the West Indies in 1988. In the next 32 Tests at the venue, they won 25 and drew seven. India were down to their last man in the reserves. They won the Test by three wickets and annexed the series, chasing a fourth-innings target of 328.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: DEC 2021
Since 1995, the SuperSport Park at Centurion hosted 26 Tests, with South Africa winning 21 of them and losing only two. One of those losses was the controversial Hansie Cronje ‘forfeiture’ against England in 2000. Before Thursday, the Proteas’ last defeat here was against Australia seven years ago. A 113-run win saw India breach the fortress.
Tale of two Centurions show India have come a long way in four years

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: ABHISHEK PUROHIT DECEMBER 30
“TT ALMOST has to be a madness to be able to win away from home and you have to live it every minute, every day of being on tour. It is avery individual thing but we need to discuss this as a team, for sure.”
These were Virat Kohli’s words at Centurion in January 2018. India had just lost the second Test against South Africa by 135 runs, and with it, the three-match series after their 72-run defeat in Cape Town.
“Tt will go down as one of the greatest years in Indian cricket history, especially in Test cricket. The victories have taken a lot of disci- pline. We have worked really hard as a team for the last few years and we are slowly start- ing to see the results.”
These were KLRahul’s words at Centurion in December 2021. India had begun the year withthe grandmother of all comebacks on one leg at the Australian fortress of Brisbane. They

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: ——— BRIEFLY ——_
Covid: BCCI U-16
tourney postponed
Mumbai: The U-16 Vijay Merchant Trophy has been postponed due to the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in India. In its email to all its affiliated units on Thursday, the Indian cricket board's secretary Jay Shah, informed that domestic cricket had started off well, with the completion of 748 matches till date, however, the sud- den spike in cases has forced the board to postpone its junior tourna- ment. "The cases across India are spi- ralling and despite being a large number of adults doubly vaccinated, they have still been infected. We have been closely monitoring the sit- uation in India and across the world, and it is estimated that the caseload will shoot up in the immediate fu- ture if the situation is not controlled now," Shah wrote an email, accessed by The Indian Express.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.99]: DEVENDRA PANDEY
Rupa Gurunath steps downas TNCA prez
Chennai: Former BCCI president N Srinivasan's daughter Rupa Gurunath on Thursday resigned from the post of president of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) to focus on "busi- ness and personal commitments".
Rupa had taken over as the TNCA president in September 2019, becom- ing the first woman to head a state cricket association in India.
Interestingly, former BCCI Ethics Officer cum Ombudsman Justice (Retd) DK Jain's report in June this year found her to be potentially guilty of ‘Conflict of Interest’ as she was an in- tegral part of India Cements which owns the popular IPL team Chennai Super Kings. While the TNCA officials emphatically denied ‘Conflict of Interest’ being the reason for her res- ignation, another theory that's float- ing in cricketing circle is that son of the most powerful political family of the state is very keen on becoming the state cricket body's head.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: PRESS TRUST OF INDIA
Pace Boom:

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: SANDIPG NEW DELHI, DECEMBER 30
IT HAS become a regular sight in cricket.
Jasprit Bumrah beaming, India winning, op- ponents left staring at genius fast-bowling that defies belief. Bumrah has been instru- mental in India’s first-ever series in Australia, pivotal to India’s 2-1 series lead in England, and now influential in orchestrating this 113- run win in South Africa, the first step in their pursuit of conquering another elusive shore.
Helping Bumrah break this cricketing ceiling was his long-time pace partner Mohammad Shami, who finished with eight wickets in the game as India took a 1-0 lead in the three-Test series. Easily the deadliest new-ball pair in the world today, they blew away the hosts at a venue that is considered their fortress. South Africa has lost just three of the 27 Tests played at Centurion.
On Thursday, South African skipper Dean Elgar seemed determined to protect the citadel. But against Bumrah's relentlessness, he had to finally give in, out lbw on 77. That was the key strike. After that, it was only a matter of time.
wouldend the year by becoming the first Asian team to wina Test at the South African fortress of Centurion. In between, they would mount successful raids on those venerated citadels of English cricket - Lord’s and The Oval.
Four years ago, all of this would have been unthinkable except, of course, inside Kohli’s mind, where the “madness to win away” had taken strong roots long ago. Imagine telling the world right after one had been humbled 0-2 in a place one wanted to win desperately in that “we have to believe that we are the best side.” (Kohli would revisit this line later that year in England, even after a 1-4 scoreline, dur- ing a heated exchange with a reporter at the post-match presser at The Oval)
But the rest of the world would choose to focus on more immediate matters instead of the captain’s lofty vision, which was still some- what nebulous for those on the outside in terms of how it would be actually executed.
Several times during the post-match press conference at Centurion 2018, Kohli would lose his cool. Like when he was asked whether he
Virat Kohli leads his team into the dressing room after the win. AP
had played his best XI (An XI that had no place for then vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane in both Cape Town and Centurion. An XI that had no place in Centurion for Bhuvneshwar Kumar after he had taken six wickets in Cape Town).
“You tell me the best XI, we will play that,” Kohli
had snapped. Or when he was asked why he never played the same team in consecutive games. Eventually, it came down to Kohli pointing to South Africa’s record on their pre- vious trip to India in 2015-16. “How many times did South Africa come into the game in India? Coming close to winning games in India? Can you count?”
That was straight from the playbook of the first part of that decade, when Indian sides kept getting whitewashed overseas and kept threat- ening to return the favour when their hosts would visit India.
Burning ambition
And that was certainly not how Kohli wanted to play his cricket. Sure, he wanted to hammer visiting sides on raging turners at home - he still does that -- but he also wanted to develop aside that could win on green tops abroad. “We need to be hard on ourselves...
the mistakes that we have made... not paying attention to detail at important stages of the game is something we need to discuss as a
team,” Kohli had said.
He would repeatedly ask for 120 per cent or 150 per cent or 200 per cent effort from his players. A mere 100 wouldn't do. The potential was quite visible indeed, as the very next match after Centurion, at Wanderers, would confirm, withamemorable win ona brutal pitch. Or the winatTrent Bridge over England a few months later. But the big prize - a series win - would still be far from their grasp. A bad session with bat or ball, and it would all slip away.
We are getting close to the line but are yet tolearn how to actually get across, Kohli would admit after England 2018 was lost in Southampton. The line would be finally, and decisively, crossed in Australia in 2018-19.
Itwas South Africa that had been the start- ing point of India’s overseas tour cycles in 2013- 14 and 2017-18. Kohli has spoken of how the Wanderers victory became the springboard for his team’s ambitions, culminating in India’s first-ever series win in Australia.
That has been followed by what was prac- tically an India ‘B’ side looting the bank at
Brisbane 2021, anda 2-1 series lead in England.
Itis fitting then that this overseas cycle ends in South Africa. And especially that the last leg has begun in Centurion, where the fruit of fail- ure had sown the seeds of success, as it has turned out in the four-year interval.
Howfar Indian cricket has come in that pe- riod is evident in Rahul's response on Thursday when asked whether he considered himself fortunate to not have to face the Indian fast bowlers ina Test match.
“Itis harder facing them in the nets, itis not something some of us batsmen enjoy,” said Centurion 2021's Player of the Match. “They keep us scared and do not treat us as team- mates. They are very competitive athletes. We are very lucky to have such quality.”
Perhaps that madness to win away from home has also created its own luckin the span between the two Centurions, It has also cre- ated greater expectations, and nothing less than a series win in the ‘final frontier’ will do now. Wanderers 2022 to better Wanderers 2018? Who would have thought?
Another fortress conquered
India end South Africa’s seven-year unbeaten run at Centurion, win by 113 runs to go 1-0 up in three-Test series

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.95]: SHAMIK CHAKRABARTY DECEMBER 30
INDIA WENT to lunch smelling victory.
Rishabh Pant had been enquiring about the lunch menu in between his words of encour- agement to the bowlers. One of them was re- served for Ravichandran Ashwin: “Ball bhi accha hai, tappa bhi achcha hai (the ball is good, as also the bounce).”
Atlunchon Day 5, South Africa were 182/7 despite an early caught-and-bowled reprieve for Dean Elgar and Ashwin looking alittle flat ona fifth-day pitch with some visible cracks.
But the Proteas batting line-up didn’t have the quality or experience to make those op- portunities count. Elgar and Temba Bavuma showed resolve. But India’s pace attack was relentless and the hosts duly surrendered to lose the first Test by 113 runs. Chasing 305 for victory, their second innings folded up for 191.
After Fortress Gabba, Fortress Centurion was breached, 29 years after India first toured the Rainbow Nation.
In26 Tests before this, South Africa had won 21 and lost only twoat this venue. Their last de- feat here came against Australia seven years ago. The hosts’ apparent invincibility at Centurion added more gloss to India’s win, notwithstanding the fact that the Saffers areon a rebuilding phase. Even without the injured Anrich Nortje, they boasted a very good pace attack. KLRahul and Mayank Agarwal neutered them with a 117-run opening partnership on the first day, batting firstin overcast conditions.
Eventually, that proved to be the difference.
Rahul wenton to score a magnificent hun- dred and deservingly got the Man-of-the- Match award. Since returning to the Test fold in England earlier this year, the opener has rev- elled in his batting discipline. It was an effort he should be proud of. “It will be right up there,” Rahul said at the post-match press conference.
The victory was achieved 11 minutes after lunch, making the weather forecast, that pre- dicted a mid-afternoon thundershower, re- dundant. Elgar’s wicket was important. A tough cookie, the South African captain showed plenty of gumption, scoring 77 and threatening to take the fight to India, through a 36-run fifth wicket partnership with
Lee 2 |
‘ 7
fy
ee

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.92]: A
a) we
Oe ap,
Ys {ATIC
a 6".
-:
a8 * oe eee | \ z
|
India captain Virat Kohli (L) celebrates the dismissal of South Africa's Lungi Ngidi on Thursday. AP
Bavuma. But Jasprit Bumrah, who else, re- moved Elgar, bowling from around the wicket and nipping the ball back into the left-hander just enough to trap him leg-before. Bumrah had opened the game for the tourists on the fourth day by cleaning up Rassie van der Dussen and Keshav Maharaj. On Thursday, he added finality to the outcome, returning with 3/50in the second innings. As Virat Kohli said at the post-match presentation, India’s victory margin would have been bigger if an ankle twist wouldn't have reduced Bumrah’s bowl- ing time in the first innings to just 7.2 overs.
Spare a thought for Mohammed Shami, who spearheaded India’s attack in the first in- nings with a five-for. He added three more scalps to his tally in the second to havea match haul of 8/107. The cat-and-mouse game with Marco Jensen was one of the highlights of the final day. Twice the young allrounder had been
lured into front-foot drives through the covers with back-to-back fuller deliveries. Consecutive boundaries ensued. His prey nicely set up, Shami dragged his length back a touch, moved the ball a shade from an impeccable fourth- stump line to induce anick to the wicketkeeper.
“Shami is an absolutely world-class bowler, among the top three seam bowlers in the world for me. Very, very happy for him to get 200 wickets and have an impactful performance,” Kohli told host broadcasters after the game.
Everyone contributes
Indian pacers love to bowl in tandem. They complement each other. The team culture and the enhanced self-belief of the side have al- lowed youngsters like Mohammed Siraj to get into the groove straightaway. Siraj took the im- portant wicket of Quinton de Kock on Day 5, the final-day pitch playing a bit up and down
and the ball keeping low to take the bottom edge onto the stumps. An unnecessary throw on his follow-through to Bavuma, that hurt the batsman, was his only transgression. He is likely to get a talking-to from the match ref- eree for taking his aggression too far. But Siraj promptly apologised to Bavuma and received a classy thumbs-up from the latter.
The India-versus-South Africa series is usu- ally played in very good spirit and the on-field camaraderie was visible between some IPL team-mates. Bumrah smiled after beating his Mumbai Indians team-mate de Kock outside the off stump. The left-hander responded with a sheepish grin. India have collectively grown asateam, keeping ‘outside noise’ and reported dressing-room misgivings at arm’s length.
When Siraj was brought into the attack on Thursday, Cheteshwar Pujara walked up to Kohli and advised him to keep a fielder at mid-
De Kock announces Test retirement
New Delhi: South Africa wicket- keeper-batsman, Quinton de Kock, announced his retirement from Test cricket with immediate effect on Thursday. The announcement comes on the backdrop of South Africa's de- feat in the first Test match against India in Centurion. In a statement re- leased, the southpaw revealed that he intends to spend more time with his growing family and hence took the call for his relatively early retirement from the format. He and his wife, Sasha, are anticipating the imminent birth of their first-born child in the coming days. ENS
wicket instead ofan extra man on the off-side.
Pujara wanted protection for the bowler’s stock incoming delivery. His captain readily obliged and changed the field.
Ashwin brought the finish with succes- sive wickets of Kagiso Rabada and Lungi Ngidi, rounding things off nicely for his team.
Nobody going wicketless from this game would be counted as a real positive. For South Africa, they were outclassed. But they would carry Bavuma’s batting, Elgar’s grit and the fast bowlers’ form to the second Test that starts on January 3.
SCOREBOARD India 1st innings: 327 South Africa first innings: 197 India second innings: 174 South Africa 2nd innings: 191 (o/n: 94/4) Elgar lbw b Bumrah 77, Bavuma not out 35, De Kock b Siraj 21, Mulder c Pant b Shami 1, Jansen c Pant b Shami 13, Rabada c Shami b Ashwin 0, Ngidi c Pujara b Ashwin 0 Extras: (lb 2, nb 5) 7; FoW: 1-1, 2-34, 3-74, 4- 94, 5-130, 6-161, 7-164, 8-190, 9-191, 10-191 Bowling: Bumrah 19-4-50-3, Shami 17-3- 63-3, Siraj 18-5-47-2, Thakur 5-0-11-0, Ashwin 9-2-18-2
India won by 113 runs
How Bumrah has rebranded the identity of Indian cricket
Speaking to The Indian Express, Javagal Srinath, the last India speedster to consis- tently clock 140-plus kph and dreaded by openers across the world, says Bumrah is “definitely ahead” of him.
“Of all the Indian pacers I have seen and played with, I would put him on top of the pack. Definitely, ahead of me. Top class bowler in world cricket, he has done enough to be in any Hall of Fame. Inswingers, straighteners, leg cutters, bouncers, york- ers, Slower cutters -- you name it, he has it.
It’s been a real pleasure watching him bowl,” he says.
Srinath also shares the reason that makes him “go wow”. “In the West Indies, he looks like a West Indian bowler, in South Africa, he operates like a South African. Same in Australia or England. The lines and lengths, and angles of release, and types of balls in each country conditions -- minute tweaks that might go unnoticed -- he makes it seem he has been in that country for years. Like a home bowler,” he says.
Numbers back such praise. By any yard- stick, they are startling: 106 wickets in 25 games, at an average and strike rate of 22.33 and 50.5; five-wicket hauls in Australia,
Jasprit Bumrah appeals for the wicket of Dean Elgar at Centurion on Thursday. Reuters
England, South Africa and West Indies; a Test hat-trick; and, man of the match plaques from all of these countries.
In the nine matches that India have won with Bumrah, he has nabbed 55 wickets at 15.81 and struck with every 37th ball he has bowled. It’s no sleight of fate that India’s evo- lution as a cricketing superpower outside Asia coincided with the emergence of Bumrah.
Beyond it all, he has rebranded the iden-
In the West Indies, he looks like a West Indian bowler, in South Africa, he operates like a South African. Same in Australia or England. The lines and lengths, and angles of release, and types of balls in each country conditions -- minute tweaks that might go unnoticed -- he makes it seem he has been in that country for years.
Like a home bowler.”

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.86]: JAVAGAL SRINATH FORMER INDIA PACER
tity of Indian cricket. For long, it was con- noted to classical, guileful spinners before it came to be identified with virtuoso batsmen, the technicians and stylists that oozed ori- ental charm. Now, the world is in awe of their fast bowling riches, and the crown in the jewel is Bumrah. It could even be argued that his influence has been more than that of Virat Kohli, the titular figure of contemporary Indian cricket, since India are winning games abroad despite the captain's long phase of in-
Vol XC- 44 Regd.No. DL-21046/03-05 RN.L No.506/57. Printed and Published by R.C.Malhotra on behalf of The Indian Express (P) Limited and Printed at The Indian Express (P) Limited Press, A-8, Sector-7, Noida -201301 and D B Corp Ltd, Dainik Bhaskar Village Unan Tola, Near Danapur Cantt, Shivylya Road, Post Khagaul, Shahpur, Patna (Bihar) and Published at The Indian Express (P) Limited, Mezzanine Floor, Express Building, 9&10, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, New Delhi 110002. Editorial office: The Indian Express (P) Limited, Mezzanine Floor, Express Building, 9&10, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, NewDelhi- 110002. Phone: 0120-6651500. Advertising office: The Indian Express (P) Limited, B1/B, Sector-10, Noida-201301. Phone:01206651291. Chairman of the Board: Viveck Goenka, Chief Editor: Raj Kamal Jha, Editor: Unni Rajen Shanker, Editor (Delhi): Rakesh Sinha ** * Responsible for selection of News under the PRB Act. Copyright: The Indian Express (P) Limited. All rights reserved. Reproduction in any manner, electronic or otherwise, in whole or in part, without prior written permission is prohibited. The Indian Express®
different form.
Vignettes of India’s fast bowlers were too few that all those were easily re-countable.
Like that Ishant Sharma spell against Ricky Ponting, or Sreesanth in Johannesburg, or Zaheer Khan at The Oval. Bumrah has the skill and pace to stitch together more treas- urable fast-bowling moments than all of those combined. It speaks of his inexorable brilliance, just as it exposes India’s non-ex- istent fast-bowling legacy.
Showering superlatives
The world has also risen to shower su- perlatives. The West Indies legend Andy Roberts, thrifty in praise, views him as one of their own. “He could have been one of us in our heyday,” he had told this newspaper.
Another Caribbean totem Curtly Ambrose said that he “would have loved bowling alongside” Bumrah. Vivian Richards said he would rather face Dennis Lillee, and called Bumrah the “diamond in their armoury”.
The not-so-easily wooed Australian crowd were queuing up for his autograph, jerseys, gloves and what not. They composed songs and not parodies for him, they waited for him as they had once waited for Sachin Tendulkar.
New Delhi
In England, captain Joe Root wants his bowlers to learn ruthlessness from him. In September, referring to Bumrah’s spell at The Oval that turned the game around and gave India a famous win, Root had said: “You look at that spell by Bumrah: he recognised a key moment in the game and turned it on its head this afternoon. It was a wonderful spell that really turned the game. If you're thrown the ball, you need to get the bit between your teeth and turn the game.”
This sparkle sometimes obscures the feats of accomplices Shami and Mohammed Siraj. But it's their support that makes Bumrah, just as it's his support that makes them. It’s a luxury some of his predecessors could only dream of.
Says Srinath: “The pressure and intensity of attack maintained by Shami and Siraj now, or Ishant before, has been great. The pres- sure just keeps building and Bumrah then comes back for his spells to attack more. He can be fresh, he can be mentally relaxed, that he doesn't have to do it on his own, that he doesn't have to bowl too many overs and spend his energy. Fast bowling is about con- servation of energy. He stays fresh and then attacks ruthlessly when he comes back.”
20

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: SPORT

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: WWW.INDIANEXPRESS.COM

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: THE INDIAN EXPRESS, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2021
The pandemic year locked them in quarantines but athletes around the world found resilience to call time on people-pleasing and discovered their moral voice to say NO. Gymnast Simone Biles, tennis star Naomi Osaka and Virat Kohli spoke their minds and defied convention. The year also saw athletes discover the full potential of social media - not just the big names but even the hitherto unknowns from small towns became stars in their own right. There were also some breakthrough performances that will stand the test of time. The hockey captain who reawakened a country’s nostalgic pride, a Mumbai-born New Zealand cricketer returned to his roots to create history, a badminton star who finally learnt how to marry art with commerce, and the man who launched his gold-plated javelin to quench a nation’s thirst.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.96]: NIHALKOSHIE
AS THE season of endless felicitations, sponsor events, ad shoots, and interviews extended into November, Tokyo Olympics gold medal- list Neeraj Chopra's window to tick something offhis bucket list shrunk. His sister’s wedding was in the third week after which he was to travel abroad for training.
The automobile enthusiast was restless.
He keeps track of new launches and can talk about engine horsepower, top speed and ac- celeration times. Chopra test drove his dream SUV. The butch looks and road presence ap- pealed to him. He was also being pragmatic.
His javelins fit only in an SUV.
But the dealer said the four-wheel drive would take over a month to be imported, by which time he would be flying out. Chopra didn't pull strings to get ahead on the waiting list for delivery.
Quietly he looked for options in the sec- ond-hand market and settled fora used sports Car.
Driving around Khandra village and Panipat town gave Chopra some rare ‘me time’ after more than three months of whirlwind touring to be feted as India's first gold medal- list in track and field. The who's who of the country wanted his time. He was unable to step out without being
pilots often gave away who was on board.
“On airplanes, they used to announce ‘we are thrilled to have the Olympic gold medal- liston board.’ Not once did I see him get angry with anyone despite people being invasive,” Shah describes.
“When it comes to fans, especially kids, if somebody asks him for a picture, even if there are 10 people around him, including bounc- ers telling him not to do it, he feels that if some- body is waiting he needs to oblige them. That has not really changed, it is a big part of his personality. He is coming from very little and he knows that all of this could be very fleet- ing.”
Chopra also made peace with not being able to enjoy the small pleasures of life. He could no longer enter a mall unnoticed. He had to try and slip into some sort of disguise.
“Earlier he could just walk into a mall and shop. Now he would wear a mask and cap and then go. He would still be recognized. He would tell people ‘let us take a picture on the side’ so not many notice,” Shah says.
The javelin star had to wait a while before he could shop. When ona short holiday with the family, he bought shoes in Dubai. One of the pictures he posted on Instagram is of him sitting on the sand dunes during a desert sa- fari with a brand-new pair of basketball sneak- ers on his feet. Being a sneaker-head, he spent
asmall fortune.
recognised, even if he wore a mask and a cap.

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.97]: YEARENDER
Before and after his mini-break though, he
There were selfie requests 2 O 2 1 had tolearn to pose before at every step. the camera during shoots, He had no time to act, get comfortable with
train or hitthe gym. Chopra gained weight and had to cut short his season. To his credit, the 24-year-old didn't let success go to his head, nor was heat his wit's end when his life turned into one big public mela.
He consciously kept the trappings of fame at a distance. He retreated to the comfort of his close-knit family and a small circle of friends when his stardom matched that of the big cricket names. His mentions on social me- dia were in millions and his followers grew by lakhs overnight.
Not-so-mundane life
Aman Shah has been working closely with Chopra over the past four years and was with him during most of the post-Olympics travel.
Shah is part of the team which manages him at JSW Sports. Being in the public eye came at a cost for Chopra. But he took it in his stride, says Shah.
When the attention got a little too much, Chopra needed a little help. Before flights, a request was made to the protocol officer at the airport to allow him an easier passage to the aircraft, away from the common area. But the
talking about the medal-winning feat before big gatherings and make small talk at func- tions.
But he slipped into different roles like it was second nature. For the Cred television commercial, an instant hit, one of Chopra’s re- quest was to give him very short dialogues like ‘ab kya? MBA?’ or ‘360 degree marketing’.
His two gold medals, the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games in 2018, and the Junior World Championship gold two years earlier had given him a brush with fame. The wave of adulation post the Olympics was un- precedented.
Influential figure
Chopra switched off his phone on landing in India. To reach him, one had to go through either Shah or his uncle Bhim Chopra. The two of them had to plan each hour of each day. It would be a while before Chopra was able to return to his train-rest-train schedule.
“His uncle Bhim would take all the calls re- lated to governments, Neeraj didn't have his phone on. There were at least 100 phone calls every day. It didn't get to him as he didn't face
Gold,
Rush
Life hasn’t been the same for Neeraj Chopra since his historic 87.58m heave of the javelin.
Yet the man from Khandra has held on to his values
alot of it,” Shah says.
But at times people would get a little pushy. Some of those on the line would insist on talking to Chopra. Once they got to speak to Chopra, they would ask for favours — to put in a word for inter-departmental transfers, a promotion or to give arecommendation for a sports award.
He was also mindful not to get dragged into any controversy or be used as a pawn.
Around the time he returned the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) dismissed the claim of acoach taking credit for guiding the athlete backin 2015.
Chopra paid the coach a courtesy call when he was in Pune for an army function.
he didn’t have a good day. He is very close to the world record and I hope he sets the world record,” Chopra said speaking at The Indian Express e.Adda.
This was Chopra's attempt to comfort Vetter, with whom he had shared a car ride before the Olympics while in Europe. Chopra is known to stay in touch once he develops a bond, be it someone he just met or an early mentor.
Jaiveer, or as Chopra calls him ‘Monu bhai saab,’ was his very first coach in Panipat.
Everyone knows of the story of the overweight boy who was told by his family to go to the ground to get fit. Jaiveer was the one who gave the unsure youngster his first lessons in the
But when the coach put out javelin throw.
pictures of Chopra's visit to To date, Jaiveer remains his home, the star javelin When the troll army Chopra's guide and friend.
thrower wasn't amused be- . He was one of the first peo- cause he felt like he had Was going after ple Chopra called after win- been used to proveapoint. Pakistan thrower ning the gold in Tokyo.
He stayed clear of public When Chopra underwent spats. Just before the Arshad Nadeem for an elbow operation two Games, foreign coach Uwe picking up the Indian’s years ago and his season un- Hohn had said top sports javelin before the first ravelled, Jaiveer was by his organisations in the coun- . side in the hospital room.
try did not do enough to round in Tokyo, Chopra Meanwhile, a childhood prepare athletes for the dousedthe fire by friend running an academy Olympics. A day after arifyi near Chopra’s village can Hohn's broadside, two cl ng that athletes bank on him to sponsor a other javelin throwers, Were free to use each promising young athlete.
nudged by officials, putout other’s equipment “He does not forget those statements alleging the . c1° who have been there for German-born coach used during competition. In him. He is the same Neeraj, totrainathletes fromother aVideo message and before and after the medal,” countries when at foreign vijaa tweet, Chopra his uncle Bhim says.
camps meant for the Indian Sports writers have team. Chopra didn't get into madea strong plenty of stories of athletes amud-slinging game. statement by calling they have known well not When the troll army gyt those who painted returning calls or giving was going after Pakistan : them the cold shoulder thrower Arshad Nadeem @ fellow competitor as once they turn super stars.
for picking up the Indian’s a villain. Chopra is proving to be an javelin before the first exception.
round in Tokyo, Chopra A journalist was pleas-
doused the fire by clarifying that athletes were free to use each other’s equipment during competition. In a video message and via a tweet, Chopra made a strong statement by calling out those who painted a fellow com- petitor as a villain.
The competitor and friend
His empathy for this era's most dominant thrower Johannes Vetter, when the German great failed to qualify for the final at the Tokyo Olympics, was a lesson in how to stay grounded.
“Please pass on the message to him that I consider him as a great athlete and when he was leaving the field, | wanted to hug him and make him feel ‘you are the best.’ It’s just that
antly surprised when Chopra forwarded a per- sonal voice note to invite him to this sister's wedding last month. Within a fortnight of the wedding, Chopra landed at the Chula Vista Elite Athlete Training Center in California, USA.
Next year he will aim for medals in three ma- jor events, the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games, and World Athletics Championships.
He is coming off a long cheat phase and having a sweet tooth didn't help matters. The first aim is to get back to shape.
“I have slowly started training. I had be- come fat,” Chopra said, while shooting a live Instagram video and replying to questions.
On the breakfast table was a plate of fruits and what looked like some cereal. In the dis- tance was a training track.
ataes

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 1.0]: BECIL

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.93]: SOLDIER WITHOUT UNIFORM
An internationally renowned expert in Cy- ber, Counter Terrorism , National Security, Drones and Electronic Warfare , Dr (Prof) Nishakant Ojha, is a sought- after advisor, an eminent Professor. Dr (Prof) Ojha is also a well-known author, whose recent book, “A New Game of Geo-politics in West Asia-US, Iran and India,” carries the foreword of H.H.
Arif Mohammed Khan, Governor of Kerala, commending his efforts. As Chief Strategic Officer& Advisor Cyber & Aerospace Security in a PSU under Government of India, Dr (Prof) Ojha, is spearheading several initia- tives such as building a Centre of Excellence for Al and Cyber Security to strengthen the National Security of India. He was instru- mental in advising many West Asia & mid- dle East countries in sub setting the Terror- ist activities He had also served as a Principal Advisor -with Republic of Sudan for strengthening the National Security of the Country and also advising many Terrorist af- fected countries basically from Middle East & West Asia on Counter —Terrorism
Today, the world is facing a para- doxical situation where sophisticated technology is a boon and a bane. How protected are we as a nation?
India is in a grim situation when it comes to cyber warfare perpetrated by countries in- imical to it. In today’s highly sophisticated technology driven environment, Cybercrimes too have become a real time danger. India has to adopt a more aggressive stance, both overtly and covertly, to identify these threats.
India needs to place intelligent safety checks and mechanisms to counter these threats.
The existing Cyber rules and policies are inad- equate to address the real time challenges thereby, making it important to frame strin- gent laws on priority to tackle and curb cyber terror attacks. The government is investing significant resources into institutions to tackle cybercrime and cyber terrorism and it is making all efforts to ensure proper moni- toring for enhanced accountability and im- plementing periodic audits would further streamline and strengthen the near real time response in the fighting against cybercrimes and terrorism. India needs a centralised monitoring and coordination centre for pro- cessing actionable Intelligence for sharing the same with all the Law Enforcement Agencies in real time. When it comes to na- tional security there should not be even a fraction of compromise. | believe in the rule, ‘Respect all, Suspect all’.
The adversaries are employing new and asymmetrical technologies to pose a chal-
lenge to us, especially in the cyber space and also in the conventional space. How do you think we can counter the same.
| have worked very closely with the many Middle & West Asian countries who are striv- ing hard enough to create a robust eco-sys- tem to address Cyber & Counter Terrorism issues .In lieu of that | would request and suggest to the concern authority in the gov- ernment of India to set up a National Cyber Joint Task Force under the Ministry of De- fence. The Task Force would compile intelli- gence and work in close coordination and collaboration with all the agencies to pro- tect, secure and guard the all kinds of war- fare domains - land, sea, air, space, and cyber within our country’s territorial jurisdiction .
The Task Force would basically serve as a re- source focal point for the multi-disciplinary areas in research and analytical exchange for the national goals and strategic posture of the Republic of India. And the ability of that would be to build and deploy 50 military equipment in support of the national strate- gic objective. | wanted to emphasis on having a mechanism to keep the government offi- cials apprised of the audit and its outcomes periodically.
On what premise would the pro- posed National Cyber Joint Task Force function?
The National Cyber Joint Task Force would work basically on two primary premises- strategic information support and informa- tion operations. The strategic information support would look into centralising techni- cal intelligence, collection and management and providing strategic intelligence support to the various defence commands enabling joint operations.
The strategic operations would take into account input and output of intelligence for cyber warfare in paralysing enemy opera- tions and system sabotage. It would enable India to conduct operations by integrating multiple decisions of information and war- fare into a unified force covering a host of vital aspects such as cyber espionage, of- fence, media campaigns, psychological and political warfare missions. This system would defang the efforts of our adversaries to weaken and destabilize the country.
| am creating a cyber war room for cyber security and working deeply in counter terror- ism, which if not blocked, will play a very dangerous role in the coming years after the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban. | can say this from my extensive experience in ad- visory roles to many countries including as former principal advisor to the Republic of
Sudan where | worked on enhancing their defence capability programme and my stint with the Russian government also. | also have a post-doctoral degree in Al from Den- mark on paid scholarship from the EU. Today, | am an eminent expert for the BSF for counter terrorism.
Could you share about your role in fortifying the financial sector against frauds?
During the Covid pandemic, money traf- ficking and money laundering incidents rose sharply in the small cooperative banks, which still to be digitalised or are semi digi- talised. There are approx. 90,000 rural coop- erative banks and about 1300-1500 urban cooperative banks in India. To check finan- cial frauds, CERT-in, under the Ministry of Electronics and IT and Ministry for Communi- cation and Information Technology, Govern- ment of India, sought my expertise for cre- ating Security Operation Centres (SOC), with whom we have signed an MOU. My primary objective is to create a robust cyber security eco-system to protect these 90,600 co-oper- ative banks. The SOPs that are being created would take the traffic from cooperative banks, read, analyse them and send those data to CSIRT-FIN for sending alerts and advisories to the concerned stakeholders and cooperative banks for taking necessary action in time.
What is your strategy against cyber terrorism?
Cyber terrorism has many aspects to it.
My suggestion is that there is need to create different cyber security nodes e.g., There are multiple defence theatres, for which we should create separate nodes and then create aWAN of those that will cover all them, and
likewise for all the critical infrastructure such as power, airport, ports, scientific installa- tions. When these nodes are controlled though one WAN, it would be easier to check input and output of data. For this integration of all the agencies is of paramount impor- tance under a competent leadership to bring all of them together for the sake of protecting the nation.
What kind of Drones are being built to counter predator drones sneaking into Indian territory?
In India, there are a many indigenous pro- jects where next generation drones can be developed that are capable of identifying, jamming, responding and are also suicidal.
These drones can be controlled by their com- mand centre, and also through the satellites to different satellites. We are working on a sys- tem where the Next-Gen Drones have the ca- pability to identify and read the frequencies of other equipment and hop up to another fre- quency without jamming them. Many foreign universities have collaborated with us and have even started sharing the ToT with us.
There are many countries who have robust technology, but no funds to take it forward. | am targeting them for importing those tech- nologies into India, and bringing the start- ups on a common platform to develop well-in- tegrated and comprehensive technologies compatible to our security needs and hand it over to the Government of India. Spoofing is one of the element which will play a vital role in that particular Drones.
You have worked closely with the Late CDS General Bipin Rawat. Could you share your association with him?
The tragic martyrdom of CDS General Bipin Rawat Sir is an irreparable loss to the nation and personally to me a lot as well. He was my mentor, guide and a great support to me. | know for sure that he was very popu- lar, admired and respected as a brave heart in West Asian countries and the Middle East.
He was truly a daring officer, a true warrior. Sir always encouraged me saying, “Have faith, we will do something good together for the Country .” A man of rare calibre, he was a true patriot for whom it was ‘country first’ and other thing secondary .
During my initial days of interaction with Bipin sir, he advised me to choose good peo- ple from different agencies, from different departments, from universities and create a team for a start-up, which should work as a vertical to all the supporting agencies as and when required. Bipin Sir is my idol and will be , he always helped in boosting my morale
Protecting the Nation Against the Cyber War Cyber Terrorism Post Covid-19 Pandemic
whenever | felt week He literally had trans- formed me into a Non-Uniform Soldier and made me committed to keep on doing what is good for the nation without fearing for one’s life, he has instructed me to do right things which is for the betterment of the Mother India and | pledge to do till end of my life.
What made you join BECIL as Chief Strategic Officer?
| am grateful to CMD of BECIL, who has been a great support by offering me this platform and the responsibility of Chief Strategic Officer encouraging me to pick the best indigenous brains and integrating them for strategic planning. My areas of expertise are cyber, counter terrorism, national secu- rity, drones, electronics warfare .| am an em- inent expert in Counter Terrorism for West Asia and the Middle east, so | have a sound understanding of how terrorism works and the dark cyber space operations correlate with that . | am developing a Centre of Ex- cellence here, which will play a very vital role in enhancing the national security of our na- tion by nailing down counter terrorism and it will be a kind of supporting arm for the law enforcing agency.
We have started many start-ups that are working on many areas, including counter drones, electronic warfare etc. | am devel- oped a digital forensic lab and my target is to make this lab into a world-class one in an- other 6-7 months. | am really thankful to the National Cyber Security Coordinator who had helped me in fulfilling this particular dream into reality An upgraded version of CBRN protection system for detecting and alerting about new viruses is another focus area. Where we are focusing and | put in words that it will change the entire dynamics of Combat Operations. In the future, | can foresee that there will be two kinds of war- machine war and biological war where com- bat by soldiers would be the last option.
Alis a powerful technology to con- tend with in stealth digital warfare.
What is you observation?
Al is being dangerously used. In today’s highly sophisticated environment hackers are on their job, teaming up, coordinating, and targeting to damage and attack across the global digital landscape resulting as a threat destroying trust among the service providers and customers. There is need for a safety mechanism against Al led cyber threat. My suggestion to the government is to set-up a cyber-war room in different loca- tions where they can read the characteris-

❌ Not Current Affair [Score: 0.94]: ADVERTORIAL
tics of the data, so that they can respond in real time basis.
Even at the recent Indo-global summit held in Dubai, | proposed to the member na- tions for creating a dedicated Centre of Excel- lence in the core area of Al Cyber security along with some sort of cognitive advanced technology between the quadrant countries India, Israel, Dubai, UAE, Sri Lanka. Dubai has shown his great interest for the same.
Cyber is not just about tools, it’s an art. At the CoE here, we are developing Al with in- digenous knowledge, which will be entirely ‘Made in India’ and handed over to the gov- ernment to take it forward. We have to nur- ture fresh minds and put them on a specific task for good results.
What are the top priority areas that need attention for the fight against Cybercrime and cyber terrorism?
There are three things that needs immedi- ate attention. Firstly, a Cyber security law and Cyber security Strategy must be formulated immediately. Secondly, the government should work closely with the security agencies on the Drones laws. Lastly, a WAN system must be created immediately to cover all the Defence Commands of India Army, along with critical infrastructures also. And then in- tegrate them to build a better, faster cyber security data operations on PPP model. Pri- vate companies and start-ups must be en- couraged and given support, but everything has to be audited. Due diligence of each staff member has to be carried out to ensure that there is no breach of data, which makes Data protection policy, all the more necessary. In grey areas where we are lacking, the govern- ment has to act fast to make national security more robust and strong enabling agencies to get a grip on the two-way passage of data.
With respect to the Terrorism in all its man- ifestations are unacceptable and never be justified. Today all States in every region are vulnerable to terrorism and this menace has become a serious global concern. India since its independence has been facing the prob- lem of insurgency and serious victims of cross boundaries terrorism in different parts of the country and frontier- terrorism has been the unending vexed issue. The terrorist groups both religious and non-religious have been resorting to varied terrorist activities adopting improved and sophisticated devices having external links with likeminded terror- ist groups in other countries. In the light of this, India should evolve equally improved & robust strategies to combat and counter frontier- terrorism in particular adopting global counter terrorism strategy also.
New Delhi
